Michael: Tonight is the Dundies, the annual employee awards night here at Dunder Mifflin. [holds up a trophy of a business man] And this is everybody’s favorite day. Everybody looks forward to it, because, you know, a lot of the people here don’t get trophies, very often. Like Meredith or Kevin, I mean, who’s gonna give Kevin an award? Dunkin’ Donuts? Plus, bonus, it’s really, really funny. So I, you know, an employee will go home, and he’ll tell his neighbor, “Hey, did you get an award?” And the neighbor will say, “No man. I mean, I slave all day and nobody notices me.” Next thing you know, employee smells something terrible coming from neighbor’s house. Neighbor’s hanged himself due to lack of recognition. So…
Michael: [in a Fat Albert voice] Hey hey hey! It’s Fat Halpert.
Jim: What?
Michael: [in Fat Albert voice] Fat Halpert. [in normal voice] Jim Halpert.
Michael: So why don’t I take you on a tour of past Dundie winners. We got Fat Jim Halpert here. Jim, why don’t you show of your Dundies to the camera?
Jim: Oh, I can’t because I keep them hidden. I don’t want to look at them and get cocky.
Michael: Oh, that’s a good idea.
Dwight: Mine are at home in a display case above my bed.
Michael: Gyaaah. T.M.I. T.M.I my friends.
Michael: T.M.I.? Too much information. Ah, it’s just easier to say T.M.I. I used to say “Don’t go there” but that’s… lame.
Michael: And here we have Stanley the Manly. Now Stanley is a Dundie all-star, aren’t you Stan? Why don’t you, ah, show them some of your bling.
Stanley: I don’t know where they are, I think I threw them out.
Michael: Oh, no you di-int.
Stanley: I think I did.
Michael: W-why did you…
Stanley: Say, we got to order some more apa-teezers this time. We ran out last year, remember?
Michael: Yes we should. I… you know what? I wanted one of those skillets of cheese, but when I got off stage, [turns to Kevin] someone had eaten all of them.
Michael: [in video] To Oscar Martinez it’s the “Show Me the Money” award! Yeah!
Oscar: [in video] That’s supposed to be confidential.
Michael: [in video] He has the award-ah! …it’s a type of song that we are going to play for the ladies. Hit it, Dwight!
[Dwight starts playing the tune of “Mambo No. 5” by Lou Bega on his recorder]
Michael: [singing along to tune on video] A little bit of Paaam, all night long, a little bit of Angela on the thing…
[Somebody sits in front of the camera on the video, so even though nothing can be seen, Michael can still be heard]
Michael: [in video]…a little bit of Phyllis everywhere…
Pam: Oh, yeah, this is the part where Kevin sat in front of the camcorder all night. It’s great.
Michael: [on video] …a little bit of Roooy eating chicken crispers… …a little bit of Jim with some ribs, a little bit of…
Michael: [talking to the speakerphone] Will her highness, Jan Levinson-Gould, be descending from her corporate throne this evening to visit us lowly serfs here at Dunder Mifflin Scranton?
Jan: [on speaker phone] It’s a, it’s, it’s a two and a half hour drive from New York, Michael.
Michael: Well, you could take the bus. You could work on the way here. Sleep on the way home.
Jan: No.
Michael: Wuh… Come on, Jan. This is important. I mean, this is, this is, validation to my employees here that you and corporate approve of this. So…
Jan: No, we don’t approve of this Michael. I mean, y-you only had the budget for one office party a year, so… we’re not paying for this.
Michael: Um…
[Michael looks at the camera and motions for the camera to leave the office]
Michael: [to camera] Could you…?
Jan: Are you there Michael?
Michael: Yeah, I’m here, I just wanted to, uh, talk to you for a second about that.
[Michael closes the blinds]
[The camera tries to find a crack in the blinds]
Michael: Um, what, ah, what is, I mean…
[The camera pans around to reception, Pam is listening]
Michael: …come on, Jan!
[The camera goes to a side of Michael’s office where the blinds are still partially open]
Michael: You’re dropping an A-Bomb on me here.
Jan: Really? I’m dropping an atomic bomb on you?
Michael: Well, yeah, I mean, what is…
Jan: You already had a party on May 5th for no reason.
Michael: No reason?! It was the 05 05 05 party…
Jan: And you had a luau….
Michael: …it happens once every billion years.
Jan: And a tsunami relief fundraiser which somehow lost a lot of money.
Michael: Okay, no, that was a FUN raiser. I think I made that very clear in the fliers, fun, F-U-N.
Jan: Okay, well, I don’t understand why anyone would have a tsunami FUN raiser, Michael. I mean, that doesn’t even make sense.
Michael: Well, I think a lot of people were very affected by the footage.
Michael: This is a little character I like to do [places a green turban with a yellow feather on his head], it is, uh, loosely based on Karnack, one of Carson’s classic characters. [puts an envelope to his head] Here we go. The PLO, the IRA, and the hot dog stand behind the warehouse. [tears open envelope and pulls out card] “Name three businesses that have a better health care plans than Dunder Mifflin.” Here’s the problem. There’s no open bar because of Jan and it’s the reason why comedy clubs have a two drink minimum. It’ll be fine, I just…wish people were going to be drunk.
Michael: [in video] The Dundie award for “Longest Engagement” goes to Pam Beesley.
Michael: Pam, everybody! [starts clapping]
[Pam just sits there stirring her drink, rolls her eyes and glances over at Jim]
[Jim, at the adjacent table, crosses his arms and glances over at Pam, both look annoyed]
Michael: Whoooo! When is that girl gonna get married? That’s what I have to say. Ah, Roy’s accepting.
Roy: [on video] Yes.
Michael: [on video] Thank you Roy. Are there any words you’d like to say, on Pam’s behalf?
Roy: [on video] Ah, w-we’ll see you next year.
Michael: [on video] Yeah, oh, hope not! Oh God!
Michael: I’m not changing that, it’s the best one.
Jim: No, it’s hilarious, you’re right. I just think, um, “world’s longest engagement”, um, we’re all expecting it, you know?
Michael: That’s why it’s funny. Every year that Roy and Pam don’t get married, it gets funnier.
Jim: Well I think if you use the same jokes it just comes across as lazy.
Michael: Oh, [taking it to heart] lazy. Uh huh.

Pam: Michael…
Michael: Yes.
Pam: …Dwight is banning us from our bathroom.
Michael: Okay, well, that’s just ridiculous, so just don’t, I-I don’t have time for this right now.
Dwight: Nnnnno, there needs to be repercussions…
Michael: Just don’t, don’t talk-
Dwight: …for people’s behavior.
Michael: Don’t talk-
Dwight: And it’s-
Michael: Just STAP IT YAP IT!!!!
Michael: Okay, look, I know there have been a lot of rumors flying around about the Dundies this year. How there is no money, and how there is no food, and how the jokes are really bad, but WHAT THE HELL EVERYBODY!? I mean, God. The Dundies are about the best, in every, one of us. Can’t you see that? I mean, okay, we can do better. so, tonight, for the first time, we are inviting all of your friends and family to attend the awards with us.
Dwight: [with a small fist pump] Yes!
Michael: Yeah, not bad, right? So let’s make this the best Dundies ever.
Dwight: [clapping] Best Dundies ever.
Dwight: Welcome to the eighth annual Dundies awards.
[Quick cut to everybody talking and ignoring Dwight]
Dwight: Before we get started, a few announcements. Keep your acceptance speeches short, I have wrap it up music, and I’m not afraid to use it. [points] Devon!
Michael: “The Dundies, how can I explain it? Awards you like to hate it. I’m psyched you all made it. You never had to work so hard and feel that no one notices you. You’re just a name and number and no one even says hello.” [to Ryan] Card!
Oscar: The Dundies are kind of like a kid’s birthday party, and you go, and there’s really nothing for you to do there. But the kid’s having a really good time, so you’re, kind of there. That’s-that’s kind of what it’s like.
Michael: “You down with The Dundies? You down with the Dundie-“
[The music stops, Michael looks back at Dwight]
Dwight: The waitress tripped on the cord.
Michael: Alright, alright, joke landed. So we are here, thank you all for coming to the 2005 Dundie awards. [takes off sweater to reveal tuxedo] I am your host, Michael Scott. And I just want to tell you please, please, do not drink and drive. Because you may hit a bump and spill the drink!
Kevin: [to waitress] Oh, just put these on the group tab.
Michael: Nope, actually this year, ah, no group tab, we’re going to be doing separate checks.
Stanley: You said, we could bring our families.
Michael: I did. And why didn’t ya Stanley?
Stanley: I did, my wife’s name is Terri.
Michael: Well, I’m looking forward to meeting Terri.
Stanley: It’s this person who’s hand I’m holding Michael.
[Michael is dumbfounded, Dwight pushes a button on his keyboard that says, “OHHH, YEAHHHH.”]
Michael: [to Dwight, in a low voice] Shut it. [normal voice] Um, good. Speaking of relationships, of all, all way shapes and forms. Um, I was out on a very, very hot date with a girl from HR, Dwight.
Dwight: Really? We don’t have any girls from HR.
Michael: No, that…for the sake of the story. And things were getting hot and heavy.
Dwight: Yeah?
Michael: And I was about to take her bra off…
Dwight: Yeah!
Michael: …when she made me fill out six hours of paperwork-
Dwight: Like an AIDS test?
Michael: No! [under his breath] God.
Michael: [clears throat] Alright, so let’s get this party staaaarrrrted.
Michael: Um, guys, where you going? Pam, show’s just getting started.
Pam: Sorry.
Michael: And now… to someone who quietly goes about their job, but always seems to land the biggest accounts…
Michael: …the “Busiest Beaver” award goes to Phyllis Lapin.
[Everybody starts clapping, Phyllis gets out of her booth and makes her way to Michael, she gives Jim a high five along the way]
Michael: Yeah, way to go Phyllis. Nice work, per usual.
Phyllis: This says “Bushiest Beaver”.
Michael: What? I told them busiest…idiots.
Phyllis: It’s, it’s fine.
Michael: Well, we’ll fix it up. You don’t have to display that.
[Michael has false teeth in and glasses with squinted eyes on them]
Michael: [in a stereotypical oriental accent] Herro everybodeeee. I’m gonna cwall Jan Revinson-Gould.
Pam: Oh good, I’m just in time for Ping.
Jim: Yeah.
Michael: [doing impression] Oh, dat wir be fwar. Ah, me so horny.
[The camera zooms to an Asian customer behind Michael, she is looking at Michael in disbelief]
Michael: Right? You know wat I’m talking ’bout.
Pam: [to an off camera waiter and still clutching Jim’s beer] Can I get a drink?
Michael: This next award goes to somebody, who really, lights up the office.
[Cut to Pam still drinking the beer]
Michael: Somebody, who I think a lot of us, cannot keep, from checking out. The “Hottest in the Office” award goes to… …Ryan the temp!
Michael: Yeah. [singing to music] “Hidy ho, you sexy thang. You sexy thang you.” Here you go.
Ryan: What am I going to do with the award? Nothing. I-I don’t know what I’m going to do. That’s the least of my…concerns right now.
Michael: And the “Tight Ass” award goes to Angela. Not only because she is everybody’s favorite stickler, but because she has, a great caboose. So…come on down.
Angela: No.
Michael: The “Spicy Curry” award goes to our very own Kelly Kapoor! Get on up here. Here you go.
Kelly: “Spicy Curry”, what’s that mean?
Michael: Um, not everything means something, it’s just a joke.
Kelly: Yeah, but why’d you give it to me?
Michael: I don’t know, it’s just…
Kelly: This is a bowler-
Michael: I know. It’s ju- they didn’t have any more businessmen. So…
Kelly: Yeah, but everyone else-
Michael: Just sit down Kelly.
Michael: [sweaty and chugging water from a bottle] It’s so freakin’ hot in there. Now I know what Bob Hope was going through when he performed in Saudi Arabia. Man! I got Dwight sucking the funny out of the room, but you do what you can do. [Music starts playing in the background] Here we go, he’s early with the cue. Here we go.
Michael: [Michael is singing to the tune of “Tiny Dancer” by Elton John] “You have won a tiny Dundie.”
Guy at bar: Sing it Elton.
Michael: Hey, thanks guys. Hey, where you guys from?
Other Guy at Bar: We just came from yo’ mama’s house.
Michael: Oh, alright, yeah.
Guy At Bar: Sing ’em a song dude.
Michael: Uh, you know what guys, we’re just having a little office party, so if you want, uh…
Michael: [Something flies by Michael] Hey, you know, cool it guys, really-
[The guy at the bar throws another object, looks like a wad of wet napkins, this time it hits Michael on the shoulder]
Guy At Bar: You suck man!
Michael: Let’s cut it. [Dwight turns the music off]
Michael: [clears throat] [with a lot less enthusiasm] I had a few more Dundies to, uh, give out tonight, but, I’m just going to cut it short. And wrap it up so everybody can enjoy their food. Um…thanks for listening, those who listened. [clears throat] This last Dundie is for Kevin, this is the “Don’t Go in There After Me” award. It’s for the time that I went into the bathroom after him, and it was really, really smelly. So…
Michael: [give Kevin his award]There you go.
Everybody: Dundies! Dundies!
Michael: [getting his spirit back] Alright, alright, alright, okay. Alright, we’ll keep rolling. Okay, this is the fine work award. This goes to Stanley, for all the fine work he did this year.
Pam: Fine work! Fine work Stanley!
Michael: You know you did.
Pam: Here here! Speech, speech, speech, speech [other people start joining in]
Stanley: Well, well, last year, I got great work, so I don’t…
[Pam starts laughing her cute drunk laugh]
Stanley: So, I don’t know what to think about this award. But at least I didn’t get smelliest bowel movement like Kevin. [starts chuckling]
Michael: And this next award is going out to our own little Pam Beesley…
[Cut to Pam, her face goes from drunken elation to sober realization]
Michael: …I think we all know what award Pam is going to be getting this year.
[Cut to Jim’s reaction of scared expectation]
Michael: It is the “Whitest Sneakers” award! Because she always has the whitest tennis shoes on!
Michael: Get on down here! Pam Beesley ladies and gentlemen! [Pam grabs the microphone from him] Oh, here we go.
Pam: I have so many people to thank for this award.
[Quick cut to Jim laughing and staring at Pam with amused wonder]
Pam: Okay, first off, my Keds. Because I couldn’t have done it without them. [people clap] Thank you. Let’s give Michael a round of applause for MC-ing tonight because [people start clapping again] this is a lot harder than it looks. And also because of Dwight too.
[Dwight stands up, but nobody claps]
Pam: Um, so, finally, I want to thank God. Because God gave me this Dundie.
[Quick cut to Jim, he’s doesn’t know whether to laugh or take her seriously, so he gives her an amused/appreciative grin]
Pam: And, I feel God in this Chili’s tonight. WHOOOOOOOO!!!!
Michael: Pam Beesley ladies and gentleman. [Pam hugs Michael and gives him a quick peck on the cheek] Oh! Thank you.
Jim: What a great year for the Dundies.
Michael: Was this year’s Dundies a success? Well, let’s see, I made Pam laugh so hard, that she fell out of her chair, and she almost broke her neck. So I killed, almost.
Michael: Great work tonight.
Dwight: Watch your step.
Michael: Excellent.
Dwight: Thanks, I had to, uh, check her pupils to make sure there wasn’t a concussion.
Michael: Yes, that too, but I mean with the audio. Great work.
Michael: TMI. Too much information. I used to say, “Don’t go there,” but that is so lame now. Or, “You go, girl.” Or… Um, when did “Where’s the beef?” That was, like, a long, long time ago. It’s funny how the shelf life of these things, like how long they last, like, “Too much information” probably came on the scene… I mean, I didn’t hear it till, like, this month, so it’s pretty recently. Um, but you know, they’re generally good for, like, no more than five or six years.
Deleted Scene 6 Michael: All right, we need something for Kevin.
Jim: Mmm-hmmm.
Michael: What do we know about him? He’s an accountant.
Jim: He plays guitar, he likes naval history. He’s a bowler.
Michael: [talking over Jim] He’s fat. The fat accountant award.
Jim: Well, you seem to have this under control.
Michael: I am the fat accountant.
Dwight: Michael, I need to talk to you.
Michael: Here he is.
Dwight: I just thought that you might like to know that someone has written something about you on the ladies’ room wall.
Michael: Really? What did they say? “For a good time, call Michael Scott”?
Jim: Good one.
Dwight: Uh, no, no. No, I think something bad, maybe.
Michael: Why do you think that? You just immediately go to that, Dwight? Why are you so negative? Why…
Dwight: Michael.
Michael: I mean, you just come in and you’re just negative…
Dwight: Michael.
Michael: …and you just walk negatively.
Michael: Do you want me to find out what it says?
Michael: Yes.
Dwight: By any means necessary?
Michael: What does that even mean? What are you… What are you talking about?
Dwight: It’s the ladies’ room.
Michael: Just go and find out what it says and who said it and report back to me. But don’t tell anybody that I have anything to do with it because if they ask me, I will say that you are crazy.
Michael: Thank you. You won’t regret this, Michael.
Jim: What award would you like to give Dwight?
Michael: I hadn’t planned on including him.
Jim: Okay.
Michael: Kevin.
Kevin: I think his characters are pretty funny. Especially Ping.
Michael: Well, what should I do, guys? Seriously, do you want me to just cancel the Dundies?
Kelly: No, we were just hoping you wouldn’t do those characters, like last time.
Michael: Ping? Everybody loves Ping. He’s my most popular character.
Oscar: I think many people find that character slightly racist.
Michael: Really? Well, he is based on the Chinese delivery guy that I have, who talks exactly like that, so, I think you should take it up with him instead of me.
Oscar: Look, I’m just saying that there are many people that are offered by your insensitive skits.
Michael: [sighs] Well, neither of you are Chinese, so what… Why do you care?

Phyllis: Michael, Michael.
Dwight: Phyllis, no, no. Do not listen to her. She’s out of her mind.
Phyllis: Dwight was in the ladies’ room and he was looking at me.
Michael: What?
Dwight: That is not true.
Phyllis: He was looking at me in the ladies’ room.
Dwight: That’s totally unfair. I was just in the ladies’ room in order to spy.
Michael: Dwight, you’ve hit a new low here.
Phyllis: That’s what I said. He was spying in the ladies’ room.
Dwight: What do you think, Phyllis? You think I followed you in there? Like, “Oh good. Phyllis is going to the bathroom, so maybe I get to see her naked from the waist down.” I’m not even attracted to you.
Michael: That is a good point.
Phyllis: Write him up or I’ll take it to Jan.
Michael: Okay, all right, I will do that. I will get to that definitely. Absolutely.
Phyllis: When?
Michael: Oh, I don’t know. Maybe after I finish writing, producing, directing, and hosting your awards show. All right, just relax, keep your pants on. Unless, of course, you’re in the bathroom and you should be able to take your pants off in that case without Creepsville Central spying on you. Good.
Phyllis: All right.
Michael: Here we go. [organizing his costumes] And that. [to waitress] Hey. How you doing?
Michael: [singing] You down with the Dundies?
Dwight: Yeah, you know me.
Michael: [singing] You down with the Dundies?
Dwight: The Dundies!
Michael: [singing] You down with the Dundies? You’re all my homies
Dwight: You know me.
Michael: [singing] You down with the Dundies?
Dwight: Yeah, you know me.
Michael: [singing] Yeah, all the homies
Michael: I have listened to that song so many times and I still don’t know what OPP stands for. Other people’s… Something. I… [shakes head]
Michael: All right, our next award… ah, yes, this award goes to the most creative writing on the ladies’ room wall, and the winner is… Who is it? Who wants to claim it? Shiny Dundie. Who wrote it? Great idea, Dwight.
Toby: I’m just saying I don’t think it’s appropriate for you to have given Ryan that award.
Michael: He’s hot, all right? What do you want me to do about it?
Toby: Okay, that is fine to feel, but not to act on.
Michael: [sighing] It was unanimous, Toby.
Toby: It wasn’t a vote. You decided.
Michael: Well, okay, I based it on what I felt was unanimous office sentiment, and this isn’t even about what Ryan thinks. It’s about you. It’s about how you feel about the Dundies. Admit it.
Toby: Okay, that is not true.
Michael: Yes, it is true.
Toby: ‘Cause Ryan asked me to talk to you.
Michael: Okay, I don’t have time for this. I need to get on stage and you are breaking my concentration. [imitating Native chant] Me Chief Michael Scott. Here to trade…
Michael: Don’t wanna forget that.
Manager: You and your party really need to leave right now.
Michael: Absolutely. Is this mine or is this Chili’s?
Manager: You know what? Don’t worry about it.
Michael: Keep it. My gift. [hugs Chili’s Manager] Thank you. Have a good night. See you next year.
Manager: That’s fine.

 
Ep 2
Michael: [clears throat] Hey, what’s up?
Jim: Hey.
Michael: Any emails today?
Jim: Um… I don’t think so.
Michael: No? Um… Check your spam folder.
Jim: Oh! There it is!
Michael: What?
Jim: Um… ‘Fifty signs your priest might be Michael Jackson.’
Michael: [laughs uncontrollably]
Jim: Well done.
Michael: Kay.
Jim: Topical.
Michael: I am king of forwards. It’s how I like to do business, everybody joking around. We’re like ‘Friends’. I am Chandler and Joey and, uh, Pam is Rachel. And Dwight is Kramer.
Dwight: So the monkey does the sex thing right here! [monkey noises in background]
Michael: That’s funny! That’s funny. Not offensive. Uh… because it’s nature. Educational.
Dwight: Do you want the link because then you could forward it around?
Michael: Um, I…
Dwight: Consider it?
Michael: Yeah… maybe. Maybe. Well, we’ll see. Because I… I don’t know if it’s… [muffled by jacket over his head] Whup! Come on! Hey!
Todd Packer: What has two thumbs and likes to bone your Mom? [points at self] This guy!
Michael: Kay! Oh, you are so bad! Yeah!
Todd Packer: [makes laser gun noises]
Michael: Oh, Boom! Bam! Oh, this guy is out of control! He is a madman! Better get the bleep button ready for him.
Todd Packer: bleep, bleep. What’s up, Halpert?
Michael: Uh oh.
Todd Packer: Still queer?
Michael: Uh oh! Oh-ho-ho-ho-ho-o!
Michael: Todd Packer and I are total BFF. Best Friends Forever. He and I came up together as salesmen. One time, we were out and we met this set of twins. And Packer told them that we were brothers. And so, you know, one thing led to another, and we brought em back to the motel. And then Packer did both of them. It was awesome. So…
Michael: Oh-whoa-oh! Oh! Okay. Grade ‘A’ gossip for you, right now. Randall, CFO, resigned. Nobody knows why.
Todd Packer: Are you kidding? Everyone knows why! You don’t know? Okay, check this out. Al lright. So here’s the story. So Randall is nailing his secretary, right? And she is totally incompetent.
Michael: Really? Here we go! Buckle up. It’s going to be a bumpy one!
Todd Packer: We’re talking blonde incompetent.
Michael: Oh, yeah.
Todd Packer: Like 10 words a minute… talking.
Michael: Well, to be fair… blondes, brunettes, you know, there’s a lot of dumb people out there.
Todd Packer: They are women, right?
Michael: Oh! Wow! I didn’t say it! I didn’t say it!
Todd Packer: I said it. And then, suddenly, for no reason, this bimbo blows the whistle on the whole thing just to be a bitch.
Michael: Oh, wow! What did I tell you about the bleep button.
Jim: Hey, um… what has two thumbs and hates Todd Packer? [points at self] This guy!
Todd Packer: Meant to ask you, can you think you can get someone to drive me around because of the, uh, DUI situation?
Michael: Oh. Bad boy. [to Ryan] Um… Ryan? [makes Donald Duck noise]
Todd Packer: [to Ryan] Come on, kid. Let’s go.
Michael: Ah! Man. That Todd Packer can do anything.
Jim: Except pass that breathalyzer.
Michael: Hey, send me that link to the monkey sex video. I’m going to forward it like it’s hot.
Dwight: Yes!
Michael: Forward it like it’s hot. Forward it like it’s hot. “Old School”.
Toby: Michael?
Michael: Yes, Toby?
Toby: Um… I need to talk to you in your office. It’ll just take two seconds.
Michael: Um… literally two seconds?
Michael: Toby is in HR which technically means he works for Corporate. So he’s really not a part of our family. Also he’s divorced so he’s really not a part of his family.
Toby: The full story is that Randall resigned because of sexual harassment. So Corporate asked me to do a five minute review of the Company Sexual Harassment policy.
Michael: No, no, Toby. No.
Toby: It’s really not a big deal, Michael.
Michael: It is a big deal. It’s a big deal! What are we supposed to do? Scrutinize every little thing we say and do all day? I mean, come on!
Toby: And then Corporate is going to send in a lawyer…
Michael: What?
Toby: Just to refresh you… .
Michael: NO!
Toby: on our policy.
Michael: What? He! No! Okay, what is a lawyer going to come in and tell us? To not send out hilarious emails or not tell jokes?
Toby: Maybe not some of them. Maybe not inappropriate ones.
Michael: There is no such thing as an appropriate joke. That’s why it’s a joke.
Michael: Everyone! Hello! Everyone. Hi! Sorry to interrupt. I know you’re all busy and the last thing you want is for a major interruption. But Toby has an announcement that he insists on making right now in the middle of the day. [to Toby] So, take it away.
Toby: Yeah, okay. Corporate would like us to do a five minute review of the Company Sexual Harassment policy so I’ll go over that later.
Michael: I wish you luck, Toby. I really do. But you are going to have a mutiny on your hands and I just can’t wait to see how you handle it.
Michael: A guy goes to a five dollar… lady of the night and he gets crabs. So, the next day he goes back to complain. And the woman says “Hey. It was only five dollars. What did you expect? Lobster?” This is what’s at stake.
Michael: Time to bring out the big guns. I’m heading down to the warehouse where jokes are born. Find a killer joke that’ll just blow everybody away at the seminar later. And remind them what is great about this place. So… ah! Here they are. [to Warehouse guys] Guys! Wondering if I could, uh, get your help for something. I’m looking for a new joke to tell and it needs to be just killer. And it does not need to be clean. So whatcha got?
Darryl: Like a joke? A knock-knock joke?
Michael: Um, yeah, no, well… I mean better. Better than that. The type of stuff you guys tell all day.
Darryl: Well, [points at Michael] those are some awful tight pants you have on. Where’d you get em? Like Queers R Us?
Roy: Boys R Us!
Warehouse Guy: Oh!
Michael: Alright, alright. Well, yeah, but, you know… a joke but not necessarily at my expense.
Darryl: Man, we can see all your business coming around the corner, okay? You need to, you know, hide the… good thing you don’t have a lot of business to start with.
Michael: Oooh, okay. That was still about me.
Roy: Hey, hey, hey.
Michael: What?
Roy: So you don’t have the biggest package. Don’t feel bad.
Michael: I don’t feel bad.
Darryl: [fake whispers to Roy] I think he feels bad.
Michael: No, I don’t.
Roy: You look like you feel bad.
Michael: Okay.
Roy: Little package!
Michael: Well, not exactly what I was looking for but thanks guys.
Warehouse guy: Little package! Little package!
Michael: Thank you.

Michael: Hi, is it over?
Toby: Uh, yes!
Michael: No.
Toby: I can go over it with you.
Michael: I know, I know. It’s good. It is not over. It is not over til it’s over.
Toby: It’s over.
Michael: Did he tell you everything? Obviously, he didn’t because you all still look relatively happy. Albeit bored. Do you realize what we’re losing? Seriously?
Angela: Email forwards.
Michael: Exactly! Mmwwah [blows kiss to Angela]! Can we afford to lose email forwards? Do we want that?
Angela: I hate them. You send me these filthy emails and you say forward them to ten people or you’ll have bad luck.
Michael: Give me a break. Umm… Stanley, how about that hot picture you have by your desk? Centerfold in the Catholic schoolgirl’s outfit? I mean, it is hot, it is sexy, and it turns him on. And I will admit, best part of my morning is staring at it. But what? Are we just going to take it away?
Stanley: That is my daughter. She goes to Catholic girls’ school. I am taking it down right now.
Meredith: Um… what about office romance?
Toby: Office relationships are never a good idea. Yeah. So let’s just try to avoid them. But, um, if you already have one, you should disclose it to HR.
Phyllis: All relationships? Eh, even a one-night stand?
Michael: I think the old honor system was just fine. For example, I have never slept with an employee. And, believe me, I could have.
Dwight: Yeah, Meredith.
Michael: No! No! Catherine. Remember her? Remember how hot she was?
Dwight: Yes.
Michael: She would have definitely slept with me.
Kevin: She wasn’t that hot.
Michael: Yes, she was. Dammit, Kevin!
Toby: Ok, you know, Michael…
Jim: I’m in an office relationship. It’s special. Um… she’s nice. She’s shy. She’s actually here. You want to meet her? Hold on one second. Oh, my God! Put on a shirt! Put on a… . I told you that you’d be on camera. I’m sorry, she’s European. No, I told you that you’d be on camera. Stop it.
Michael: What if Pam was a lesbian? What if she brought her “partner” in to work? [to Toby] Would that be crossing the line?
Toby: No.
Michael: What if they made out? In front of everybody?
Toby: Well, that would be…
Michael: At home? And I told everybody everything about it.
Toby: Okay, I’m lost.
Michael: Okay. Well, then let’s act it out. Pam, you will be girl A and girl B will be… Okay! We’ll use the doll. Pam. Pam?
Video: [Crossing the Line: Rules for the Modern Workplace]
Michael: I wish Todd Packer was here because he would love this. I wonder if anybody else would like to do this. Hey! Um… we have to watch, uh, Toby’s video that he’s showing us in order to brainwash us and I was wondering if anybody would like to join in? Going to be fun. Got my great pizza. Whataya say? Jim?
Jim: No, thanks. I’m good.
Michael: That’s what she said. Pam?
Pam: Uh… my mother’s coming.
Michael: That’s what she sai [clears throat] Nope, but… Okay. Well, suit yourself.
Warehouse guy: You banged her?
Darryl: Yes! [to video screen] Right here. You are a naughty girl!
Michael: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa… Okay! Hypocrite! She is a hypocrite. That is such a scam! Okay.
Jan: [to cell phone] Yes. Yes, I did. Okay. Well, we can talk about that later then. [to Pam] Hi.
Michael: Okay, you are never going to believe this. The girl in the video we’re watching that Corporate gave us… Darryl banged her! Aaand is about 90% sure.
Todd Packer: Don’t ever let this little bitch drive you around town. We got, uh, lost for half an hour.
Pam: I don’t have any DUI’s so I can drive myself, but thanks.
Todd Packer: Where is Michael Snot? Sniffing some dude’s thong? Probably.
Michael: So you are the lawyer, Mr. O’Malley? I know a lot of lawyer jokes.
Mr. O’Malley: I love lawyer jokes.
Michael: Well, it’s probably because you don’t get ’em.
Michael: When I said before that I was king of forwards, you got to understand that I don’t come up with this stuff. I just forward it along. You wouldn’t arrest a guy who’s just delivering drugs from one guy to another.
Jan: You seem a little bit agitated, Michael. What’s the problem?
Michael: The problem is that I am the boss and apparently I can’t say anything.
Jan: Well, that… that’s true in a way. You can’t say anything.
Michael: Where’s the line? Where’s the line, Jan.
Jan: Do you need to see the video again, Michael?
Michael: No, I’ve seen the video.
Toby: [to Jan] He talked the whole time.
Michael: No, I didn’t. [to Jan] Huh, what? [everyone looks up at blow-up doll]
Michael: Attention, everyone! Hello! Ah, yes! I just want you to know that, uh, this is not my decision, but from here on out… we can no longer be friends. And when we talk about things here we must only discuss work-associated things. And, uh, you can consider this my retirement from comedy. And in the future, if I want to say something funny or witty or do an impression, I will no longer, ever, do any of those things.
Jim: Does that include ‘That’s What She Said’?
Michael: Mmmhmm. Yes.
Jim: Wow! That is really hard. You really think you can go all day long? Well, you always left me satisfied and smiling, so…
Michael: THAT’S WHAT SHE SAID!
Jan: Michael. MICHAEL!
Michael: [laughing] Come on.
Jan: Michael, please.
Todd Packer: There he is.
Michael: Mwah! [kisses hand and salutes office]
Todd Packer: There he is. Good one.
Michael: You would have done the same. You just didn’t think of it first.
Jan: Mike… Michael. Please. I… I… really.
Michael: It’s… That’s…
Jan: That’s not my sense of humor.
Michael: Okay. [to man entering office] Hello. [introduces] Jan. Mr. O’Malley. This is my lawyer, James P. Albiny.
Jan: Wha…
Michael: I believe you may recognize his face from the billboards. He specializes in Free Speech issues.
Albiny: [to camera] And motorcycle head injuries, worker’s comp, and diet pill lawsuits.
Michael: This guy does it all.
Jan: [to Albiny] ‘Scuse me, I’m sorry. [to Michael] Michael. Mr. O’Malley is your lawyer.
Michael: What?
Jan: Mr. O’Malley is our Corporate lawyer. We have him on retainer. To protect the company as well as upper level management, such as yourself.
Michael: So I’m not in trouble?
Michael: I am so used to being the bad boy. I am so used to fighting Corporate that I forget that I am Corporate. Upper management. They hooked me up with an attorney. To protect me. You can’t be too careful about what you say. Mo’ money, mo’ problems.
Michael: Okay. Well, let’s get you out of here, James. Um… I think we’re under an hour still, so…
Albiny: Yeah, but I did a lot of paperwork at home before I got here.
Michael: I know. We’ll talk about it later. Thanks for coming in.
Todd Packer: There’s this guy. He’s at a Nymphomaniac Convention. And he is psyched ’cause all these women are smokin’ hot perfect 10’s, except for this one chick who looks a lot like, uh… [points at Phyllis]
Kevin: Phyllis?
Michael: No. No, no, no. That crosses the line.
Todd Packer: Ex-squeeze me?
Michael: Not you. Kevin. Just unwarranted. Hostile work environment, Kevin.
Kevin: Packer said it.
Michael: No. You said it. He pointed. A point is not a say. Look. Kevin, we are a family here and Phyllis is a valued member of that family. Like a grandmother.
Phyllis: I’m the same age as you, Michael.
Michael: I don’t know about that.
Phyllis: We’re in the same High School class.
Michael: Well, I have a late birthday and usually September’s a cut-off point. [to Kevin] You know what? You just crossed the line. Okay? There’s a line and you went over it. And you must be punished. So go to your corner.
Kevin: You mean where my desk is?
Michael: Yes, your corner. Go.
Kevin: Okay. I have a lot of work to do anyway.
Michael: Mmmhmmm.
Todd Packer: Oh my. They really got to you, didn’t they?
Michael: They didn’t get to me. I got to them. I am still the same old Michael Scott. New and improved. You know what? I love Phyllis. You know what else? I think she is gorgeous. I think she is incredibly, incredibly attractive person. [to Phyllis] C’mere, c’mere, c’mon! Come on! Come on.
Phyllis: Michael! Come on!
Michael: Oooh!
Phyllis: You don’t have to worry. I’m not going to…
Michael: I’m not worried.
Phyllis: …report you to HR.
Michael: You know what? The only thing I’m worried about… is getting a boner. Good work today, everybody.
Michael: Times have changed a little. And even though we’re still a family here at Dunder-Mifflin, families grow. And at some point, the daddy can’t take a bath with the kids anymore. I am Upper Management. And it would be inappropriate for me to take a bath with Pam. As much as I might want to.
Pam: He said what?
Michael: Good morning, Pam.
Pam: Good morning, Michael.
Michael: What’s going on?
Pam: Nothing. You look nice today.
Michael: What?
Pam: You look real thin.
Michael: I don’t get what you mean.
Pam: You just… You look good. Your shirt looks… You look real good.
Michael: Well, you said I looked thin, so what does… Does that mean I’m like thin weird or thin handsome or… [laughing]
Pam: Thin handsome, Michael.
Michael: Yes, well, of course. Of course. [laughing]
Michael: Office romance. For example, Pam and I are dating, do we have to disclose that?
Pam: We’re not dating.
Michael: No, but I’m saying hypothetically if we were dating…
Pam: We’re not dating, I’m engaged.
Michael: Well, Roy is dead, and I ask you out.
Pam: I would say no.
Michael: You say yes, and we go out.
Pam: I would drown myself.
Michael: And now Roy and Pam are dead, and we have your stupid rules to blame, Toby.
Michael: Toby actually gets alimony from his ex-wife because she makes more, so that’s kind of embarrassing. Not that I’d mind, but it would never happen to me because I would make the marriage work. People seem to like him because they think he’s one of us, but he’s not. He’s this weird loner who just tells people, “Don’t do this, don’t do that. Hire this person for this reason.” I would complain about him, but who would I go to, to complain about Toby? Toby. Bias. And what does he do about that? Nothing. Because he’s Toby. What kind of name is that? It’s almost a girl’s name. I think I’ve known more girls named Toby than guys. He just kind of makes my skin crawl a little bit. Toby is the devil. Toby’s the devil.
 
EP 3
Michael: I’m an early bird, and I’m a night owl. So I’m wise, and I have worms. Oh, breakfast.
Ryan: I got your sausage, egg and cheese biscuit.
Michael: Yummy, yummy. Thank you, Ryan.
Ryan: What was the thing, ah, you needed me to come in early for?
Michael: Um. The sausage, egg, and cheese biscuit. But thank you. And why don’t you take a couple hours. The office is yours. “Home Alone,” “Risky Business.” Take your pants off, run around. Whatever you gotta do.
Ryan: I’m just going to take a nap in my car until work starts.
Michael: Ok. [Removes biscuit, leaving only sausage, egg and cheese.] Healthier. Gotta watch those carbs.
Michael: Today, I, Michael Scott, am becoming a homeowner. Investing in real estate.
Dwight: Diversifying. Smart.
Michael: Yes it is. Yes it is. It is very important to own property. Back in olden days, they would not even let you vote unless you owned property and they’d throw you in the stocks and humiliate you.
Dwight: And it worked. They should bring the stocks back. People’d obey the law, there’d be less troublemakers.
Michael: Maybe.
Dwight: You should go.
Michael: Yes. Yes. Final walkthrough.
Dwight: Uh huh.
Michael: Sign the papers at the condo.
Dwight: You have your lawyer there?
Michael: Uh, I don’t need one.
Dwight: Can I be your representative?
Michael: I don’t need a representative.
Dwight: I think I should be there.
Michael: No, No.
Dwight: I’m good. I can make sure things are up to code.
Michael: No. Dwight. I’m fine.
Dwight: Please, I’m always the guy you rely on at work.
Michael: Well, this isn’t about work. This is closing on a condo, it’s completely personal.
Dwight: So you’re taking a personal day?
Michael: Except that, this is about my living arrangement, and as boss, I need to have a living arrangement in order to do work.
Dwight: Please, I’ll make you proud.
Michael: Ok. Fine. Yes, you can come.
Dwight: Yes! As your representative?
Michael: As my associate.
Dwight: Same thing.
Michael: No it is not.
Dwight: I have been Michael’s #2 guy for about 5 years. And we make a great team. We’re like one of those classic famous teams. He’s like Mozart, and I’m like Mozart’s friend. No. I’m like Butch Cassidy, and Michael is like Mozart. You try and hurt Mozart; you’re going to get a bullet in your head courtesy of Butch Cassidy.
Michael: Oh, most honorable Pamera. Not offensive, because that’s the way they talk in movies.
Pam: You headed out?
Michael: We are. Dwight and I are going to the big thing. So why don’t you have everybody work on their expense reports and I’d like them in by the end of the day.
Pam: Ok.
Michael: Very good.
Pam: Have a great time.
Michael: We will. Um, did you do the thing I asked you to do about the magazines?
Pam: Yeah, I changed them to your new address.
Michael: Good. The Small Business Man?
Pam: Yup.
Michael: Maxim? American Way? Cracked?
Pam: Yes, I changed your Cracked magazine subscription.
Michael: How about, uh, Fine Arts? Aficionado Monthly?
Pam: [shakes head]
Michael: NO, well can you get on that, because I don’t just read Cracked. Thank you.
Pam: Yeah.
Michael: Ok. See you soon.
Dwight: What kind of shocks you got on this baby?
Michael: I don’t know, regular. Normal ones. Nothing fancy. Not my style. What are you doing?
Dwight: [tries to open sun roof] I want to put the top down.
Michael: What? No, Dwight. It’s fifty degrees outside. Don’t… please…
Dwight: But then no one can see us.
Michael: I… Just… Would you put it up? [roof opens] Ok. Fine. Just leave it down. Whiner.
Dwight: Check it out. [points at sunglasses] Terminator.
Michael: I do not understand what you spend your money on.
Michael: Home, sweet home.
Dwight: Which one’s yours?
Michael: Right there. My sanctuary. My party pad. Someday I can just see my grandkids learning how to walk out here. Hang a swing from this tree. Push them back… wait… [turns around] no, it’s this one, right here. Home, sweet home.
Jim: [bounces ball off wall with Toby] So that’s what this sound is all day.
Carol: Michael, this is Bill. He’s the head of the condo association.
Michael: Oh, how are you? Nice to meet you, Bill. Bill. Mr. Bill. OHHH NOOO. MR. BILL. OHHH! SNL? When they pull him apart? He’d always get rolled over by something.
Bill: Nice to meet you.
Michael: Nice to meet you too.
Dwight: This is smaller than your old place.
Michael: Yeah, small. I’m buying it and I’m not renting it. So, it’s still an upgrade. He doesn’t know anything about property ownership. Kind of an idiot. Um.
Dwight: Actually, I do own property. My grandfather left me a 60 acre working beet farm. I run it with my cousin, Mose. We sell beets to local stores and restaurants. It’s a nice little farm. Sometimes teenagers use it for sex.
Carol: Are we ready to sign some papers?
Dwight: Actually, no. We have a couple of questions, about the neighborhood.
Bill: It’s very safe. It’s very clean. Also, it’s very accepting of all lifestyles.
Carol: It’s a very gay-friendly neighborhood.
Michael: Oh. Good. That’s good. It’s good to be accommodating of that.
Dwight: Let’s go check out the master bedroom.
Michael: This, my friends, is the master bedroom. Check out the cathedral ceilings. Those are like seventeen feet high. We have cable readiness. [points at wall] Right there. I am going to totally pimp this place out. I am going to put a surround sound system. I am going to put a plasma screen right against this wall.
Dwight: Oh. Terrible idea.
Michael: I’m putting my bed right over here.
Dwight: No, no, no, no, no. This is a shared wall. Neighbor throws his wife into the wall, plasma screen hits the floor. Totally smashed.
Michael: Well, then I will get a warrantee.
Dwight: Warrantees don’t cover it, plus they’re a rip-off.
Michael: Well then I won’t get a warrantee.
Dwight: Shh Shh.
Michael: So that’s the problem, is solved. What?
Dwight: Listen. [puts ear to wall] Can you hear that? Oh man. These babies are thin.
Dwight: What kind of mortgage did you get?
Michael: Uh… Ten year.
Carol: Well, ten over thirty, so thirty year total.
Michael: What? Wha? You said ten.
Carol: Ten year fixed, over thirty. Thirty year total.
Dwight: Ho, thirty years.
Michael: Ok, ok, ok.
Dwight: Wow, you’ll be paying this off in your mid-seventies.
Michael: Alright.
Dwight: Forget about retiring when you’re 65. Hey, I’ve got an idea. You know that extra bedroom? If the whole girlfriend thing never happens, that’s where the nurse can live.
Michael: Ok. Alright. Oh boy.
Dwight: Well, this is it.
Carol: Whenever you’re ready.
Michael: Um. Oh. [moves stove burner] Oh, ok. Is that suppose to come off?
Carol: Actually yes.
Dwight: Hey, look! Cool. Carpenter ants.
Michael: Um. I’m going to take a little breather for a second. Excuse me.
Dwight: We’ll be here waiting for you.
Michael: Oh, man.
Dwight: A thirty year mortgage at Michael’s age essentially means that he’s buying a coffin. If I were buying my coffin, I would get one with thicker walls so you couldn’t hear the other dead people.
Carol: Whenever you’re ready, Michael.
Michael: Uh. [breathes deeply, head at knees]
Michael: The ceilings are lower than they were last week. That, I don’t… I don’t…
Carol: What?
Michael: …know if you showed me this same unit or not.
Carol: Michael, this is the unit you saw and…
Michael: Where are all the hot people? I was told that there would be all these attractive singles.
Carol: Who told you that?
Michael: As far as I can tell, I’m the best-looking person here.
Michael: There’s a basic principle in real estate, that you should never be the best-looking person in the development. It’s just sorta common sense, because if you are, then you’ve no place to go but down.
Carol: Is this a financial thing? If it’s a financial thing, what some people do is they rent out the third bedroom.
Michael: No, no, no.
Carol: That’s some extra income for you.
Michael: I am not going to rent the third bedroom. I want a price reduction or I am a-walkin.
Carol: You will lose $7,000 if you walk away right now.
Michael: Ehhhh….
Michael: I made the right decision. I’m glad I signed. I’m a homeowner. Right? Good to be a homeowner. Diversifying. This is good. This is fun. We’re having fun.

Michael: There’s something else Dwight wanted to talk to you about. I have a surprise for you, for helping me out today.
Dwight: You didn’t have to…
Michael: No, no. I insist. I insist. Because you’ve really done some great work. Great work. And that is why, I am going to let you move into my third bedroom and pay me rent.
Michael: Why did I do it? Because I believe in rewarding people for their efforts. Ah. I rewarded Dwight with the room, and he is rewarding me back, ah, with $500 plus utilities.
Dwight: I don’t even know what to say.
Michael: I’m thinking, lock into a four year commitment, we’ll go month to month after that. Or, until I start dating, have a girlfriend, then you’re, you know, you’re gone.
Dwight: Question. Where can I put my terrarium?
Michael: What the hell is a terrarium?
Dwight: It’s a fish tank for snakes and lizards.
Michael: Oh, so an aquarium. Ah, that will not come into this place.

Dwight: Question. What about carpooling, who pays for the gas?
Michael: We take separate cars.
Dwight: Question. Can sometimes I drive your car and you drive mine?
Michael: Why would we do that?
Dwight: Just for fun?
Michael: No.
Dwight: Question. Who is the primary on the fire insurance?
Michael: EHHHHNT. Game over. Offer revoked. Dwight. I’m sorry, but you reach out and you try to be a nice guy, and help out a friend, and this is what happens. This is what I get. Oh god. I’m … Ok.
Dwight: You know you can always refinance your mortgage. We had a 15 year on our beet farm. We paid it off early.
Michael: Yeah, well, you know what? Nobody cares about your stupid beet farm. Beets are the worst.
Dwight: People love beets.
Michael: Nobody likes beets.
Dwight: Everybody loves beets.
Michael: Nobody likes beets, Dwight. Why don’t you grow something that everybody does like? You should grow candy. I’d love a piece of candy right now. Not a beet.
Dwight: Let’s get this roof going.
Michael: Stop it! [smacks Dwight’s arm]
Dwight: Ow.
Jim: Michael.
Michael: Yeah. Jim. Slim Jim. What’s going… What’s going on?
Jim: Nothing. I just wanted to congratulate you on your condo.
Michael: Oh. Thanks. Thanks. It’s very cool. It’s a three bedroom, gay-friendly.
Jim: Nice.
Michael: You know.
Jim: Hey, would you mind coming out here for a second? I just have something for you.
Michael: Really?
Michael: What’s this?
Jim: These are the Closing Ceremonies. Step up. You’re on the top one. [Michael stands on podium] Congratulations to Michael, because he closed on his condo. So, gold medal. [everyone claps]
Michael: I don’t really know what to say. Um, I’m not one for making speeches, but ah, my heart is very full at this moment.
Jim: And for Dwight Schrute, the silver medal.
Michael: Get up here, Dwight.
Dwight: Silver medal.
Michael: Yep, not as good as gold. [national anthem plays] Why are you playing the national anthem?
Jim: Um… ‘Cause your condo’s in America.
Michael: Oh. [doves move across cord] What the hell is that?
Jim: Those are the doves.
Dwight: What are the specs?
Michael: Oh, okay. I’ll tell you. Let’s see here. Three bedroom, two bath…
Dwight: [talking over Michael] Nice.
Michael: …contemporary townhouse. Two car parking…
Dwight: [talking over Michael] Yes.
Michael: …wall-to-wall carpets…
Dwight: [talking over Michael] God, what a steal.
Michael: …all fixtures included. Yes, this is… This is looking good.
Dwight: Does it have a deck?
Michael: I think it does.
Dwight: Have you seen it?
Michael: Yes.
Dwight: Does it have a deck?
Michael: I think it has a… Yeah, it has a deck. They call it a porch, but it has a deck.
Michael: When a man is laying on his deathbed there are four things that go through his mind. Was I well-loved? Check. Did I express myself? Did I let my light shine through? Check. Will an attractive woman cry at my funeral? Check. Probably more than one. Check. Check, check, check, check. Lastly, did I achieve success and own real estate? And when I close on this condo, I will be able to check that one as well.
Michael: Home owner. About to join an exclusive club, Dwight. Maybe some day these people out here will know what that feels like. Maybe not. Who knows? Not my problem. [groans]
Dwight: It’s time.
Michael: Are we ready?
Dwight: That’s it.
Michael: Are we gonna do it?
Michael: This is all mine. All the way down around the corner. It’s a shared space, but I can use it whenever I want to,
Dwight: Okay, so I called in a favor to my buddy at the police department.
Michael: Ah, the volunteer Sheriff station.
Dwight: Same thing.
Michael: No.
Dwight: Um, these are the crime statistics for the surrounding square mile over the past four years.
Michael: Oh, anything bad?
Dwight: Two charges of loitering,
Michael: Mmm-hmm.
Dwight: one noise complaint, several speeding tickets.
Michael: Mmm-hmm.
Dwight: Do you own a gun?
Michael: No.
Dwight: I’d think about it.
Michael: I don’t need a gun.
Man: Hello?
Michael: Hello! How are you? I’m, uh, just about to close on 126 over there and I guess we’re going to be neighbors. Very cool, very cool. So, uh, so what’s the vibe? What’s the vibe of this place?
Man: Uh, I don’t know. It’s pretty quiet.
Michael: Oh… That’s gonna change. [laughing]
Man: Why?
Michael: Because I loves to party and I’m gonna be partying my butt out at this place.
Man: Okay, but there’s an 11:00 noise curfew.
Dwight: Hi, I am Dwight Schrute, Mr. Scott’s associate.
Man: Who is Mr. Scott?
Dwight: Him. I have got a couple of questions about the neighborhood. Have you had any problems with prostitution, crack dealing, gang violence, etcetera?
Man: No.
Michael: Here’s a question for you. I have a convertible. Is it safe that park that in my driveway. [Man steps back inside his house and shuts the front door] All right. See you soon. Good guy. Um, cool.
Michael: I think I’m going to make myself some microwave popcorn. [humming] Press “Popcorn.” Oh, that’s gonna be delicious. I just love having popcorn in the middle of the afternoon. You know what? I could do with some hot chocolate as well. Oh, drat. I can’t make hot chocolate and popcorn at the same time, unless, I can. Boom! Second microwave for le hot chocolat.
Carol: Hello.
Michael: Oh, Carol. Hello, how are you?
Carol: Hello, hi. Hey, Michael.
Michael: Good to see you.
Michael: Second bedroom for the ladies. I mean, the extra ladies who aren’t in my bed, or for friends or family, whoever wants to pop on by to casa de Scott. And right in here… What, what’s in here? Uh-oh, bedroom number three. What are we gonna do in there? Limitless possibilities.
Dwight: Seal it off.
Michael: What? [toilet flushing] What are you doing in there?
Dwight: Fill it full of cotton or soundproof insulation.
Michael: Oh, my God. Dwight.
Dwight: Seal it off with drywall so you don’t hear Yo-Yo Ma over there all the time.
Michael: You know what I might do, I might make this into a kids’ room.
Dwight: Kids? You don’t even have a girlfriend.
Michael: I will have a girlfriend once she sees this place. I’m gonna get married and I’m gonna have kids.
Dwight: Well, that depends on how old she is. What if your girlfriend is 55?
Michael: I’m not gonna date a 55-year-old woman.
Dwight: Just a possibility.
Michael: No, it’s not. Just shut up.
Dwight: If you fall in love with her.
Michael: You’re an ass. Shut it.
Dwight: I smell mold.
Michael: No, you don’t.
Michael: I’m gonna back out of the deal. Nothing personal, but I feel like I have been taken advantage of here.
Carol: How?
Michael: This smells of fraud to me. This whole thing just kind of stinks.
 
EP 4

Michael: Howard, slash Ryan, Ryan Howard is sitting in my office. And he has been a temp here for a couple of months and he’s kind of gotten the lay of the land a little bit. Had a few laughs along the way. And now he wants to know what I think.
Ryan: The temp agency wants to know what you think.
Michael: Shall we? Let us proceed. First up, proficiency in necessary skills. Aaaaeeexcellent! [laughs]
Dwight: Michael’s in there right now evaluating the temp. He hasn’t evaluated me in years.
Michael: Five years from now, what do you want to do? Where do you want to be?
Ryan: Ah, well, I’m interested in business.
Michael: Oh! Good. Ambitious. Excellent. Want to be a manager?
Ryan: Uh, no, actually, uh, what I want is to own my own company.
Michael: That is ridiculous.
Michael: Ryan’s about to attend the Michael Scott School of Business. I’m like Mr. Miyagi and Yoda rolled into one.
Michael: [speaks in a Yoda voice] Much advice you seek. [regular voice] Do you know who that is?
Ryan: Fozzie bear?
Michael: Mmm… No. That was Yoda.
Michael: There are ten rules of business that you need to learn. Number one: You need to play to win. But… you also have to win to play.
Ryan: Got it.
Michael: And I will give you the rest of the ten at lunch.
Michael: [to Ryan] [makes clicking noises like shooting a gun] Hey!
Michael: Yes, I was the first one out. And, yes, I’ve heard women and children first. But, we do not employ children. We are not a sweat shop. Thankfully. And, uh, women are equal in the workplace by law. So, I let them out first, I have a lawsuit on my hands.
Michael: Another rule of business is being able to adapt to different situations.
Ryan: Yeah.
Michael: Adapt. React. Re-adapt. Act. All right? That’s rule number two.
Dwight: Okay, guys, listen up, we need a head count. We need to count off. Michael’s number one. Where is he? Where is he?
Michael: So what was rule two?
Ryan: Ah… adapt, react, re-adapt, act.
Michael: Okay, well, let’s… . let’s kind of take it a little slower.
Dwight: Hey, Michael. Um… Ryan needs his number for the count off.
Michael: Okay, uh, well, one is taken.
Ryan: Uh, okay, two?
Dwight: NO!
Ryan: Okay… uh, sorry?
Dwight: Okay, he can have 14. Marjory’s not here today.
Michael: Well, he needs a permanent number, right?
Ryan: No.
Ryan: …I don’t.
Dwight: Oh, you know what else? I thought of a nickname for the three of us. Three Musketeers.
Michael: Um, yeah. Okay. That… No, no, no. I got one. I got one. The Three Stooges.
Dwight: That’s funny, too. But if we’re the Three Musketeers…
Michael: Rule number four. In business, image is everything – Andre Agassi. This car is an investment. Right? If I have to take out a client or I’m seen around Scranton in it. I love it. I love this car. Do you like it?
Ryan: Yeah.
Dwight: Is this your car, Ryan?
Michael: Wow, some pretty big books back there, huh?
Ryan: [to Dwight] Don’t…
Dwight: Good shocks.
Michael: Hello, Mr. Egghead! Woop! So… oh, Stanley Kaplan! I know him. ‘M’ is for Murder, ‘P’ is for…
Ryan: That’s actually a test prep book.
Michael: …for Phone. What?
Ryan: That’s a test prep for business school.
Michael: Um, oh, thinking about business school?
Ryan: I just got in. I applied, I go at night.
Michael: Really?
Ryan: Yeah.
Michael: So you think you know a lot about business?
Ryan: No, not yet.
Michael: Uh huh.
Ryan: Just started.
Michael: Yeah. Quiz me.
Ryan: I… wouldn’t even know where to start.
Michael: Come on, egghead. Let’s do it.
Dwight: Do it.
Michael: Quiz me up.
Ryan: All right, um… Why have people been rethinking the Microsoft model in the past few years?
Michael: Uh…
Michael: When I was Ryan’s age, I worked in a fast food restaurant, to save up money for school. And then I spe… lost it in a pyramid scheme. But I learned more about business, right then and there, than business school would ever teach me, or Ryan would ever teach me.
Ryan: Is it cheaper to sign a new customer? Or to keep an existing customer?
Dwight: Keep an existing…
Michael: [to Dwight] Shut, it. Can I… can I just do it please? [to Ryan] Uh, it’s equal.
Ryan: It is ten times more expensive to sign a new customer.
Michael: Okay. Yes! It was a trick question.
Dwight: Yeah, but look, I mean, he didn’t need business school. Okay, Michael comes from the school of hard knocks.
Michael: Okay, Dwight.
Dwight: Self taught. You didn’t even go to college.
Michael: You know what, Dwight? You don’t need to help me here. Okay? Well, you know… Maybe you should go to business school like Ryan, then… then you’d know what you’re talking about.
Dwight: [scoffs] Come on. I’m studying with the master, huh?
Michael: For instance, why don’t you go to business…
Dwight: [to Ryan] You should learn from him, right?
Ryan: I am.
Dwight: Right?
Ryan: I am.
Michael: Stop. Dwight. You know what? You’re acting like a dork. Would you cool it? Please. Okay. Hey! He’s not your five year old brother, Dwight. He’s a valued member of this company… and you know what? He knows more about business than you ever will.
Dwight: Stupid!
Michael: I did not go to business school. You know who else didn’t go to business school? LeBron James, Tracy McGrady, Kobe Bryant. They went right from high school to the NBA. So… so it’s not the same thing. At all.
Michael: Look at this stuff. Market fragments. What is that supposed to be?
Ryan: It’s a way of looking at consumers as subsets of a larger client base.
Michael: You are so smart. You are so eff-in’ smart. You should be teaching me.
Michael: I became a salesman… because of people, I love making friends. But then I was promoted to manager, at a very young age. I still try to be a friend first, but… You know? I’m very successful… your coworkers look at you differently. Huu, what do you think?
Ryan: Maybe we should get some air.
Michael: Nah, I’m okay.
Ryan: I’m really uncomfortable.
Stanley: Come on people, you know the rules of the game now.
Michael: Oh, hey. Game, what game are we playing here?
Stanley: Okay. It’s called Who Would You Do?
Michael: Oh, I play this at home all the time while I’m falling asleep. What, uh… . Where are we? Where are we here? Mmm.. Roy? Roy? Who would you do, Roy?
Roy: Uh… Oh, I got it! Uh, what’s the name of that, uh, tight ass, uh, Christian, uh, chick. The, uh, the blond?
Angela: My name is Angela.
Roy: Hey, Angela! Roy. Nice to meet you.
Michael: Aaaall right. Who’s next, who’s next, who’s next, who’s? Jim? You’re next. Who would you do?
Jim: Um… Kevin, hands down. Yeah. He’s really got that teddy bear thing going on, and afterwards, we could just watch bowling.
Michael: Well, I would definitely have sex with Ryan. ‘Cause he is going to own his own business.
Roy: You’re all gay.
Michael: Who’s, uh… Who’s next? Who we got? Whooo…
Ryan: [answers phone] Hey, no, I can talk, I can talk, I can talk… this is great timing.
Michael: Wish I had my cell phone, but I left it inside. So…
Dwight: Would that make you happy?
Michael: What’s that?
Dwight: If you had your cell phone, it would make you happy?
Michael: Yeah.
Dwight: I’m on it.
Michael: Dwight. Hey!
Angela: You can’t go in yet!
Michael: Dwight, don’t! He is an idiot. The man is an idiot, ladies and gentlemen.
Kevin: What if he dies in the fire? And that’s the last thing you ever said to him.
Michael: I didn’t say it to him. I said it about him.
Michael: [in the background] How long does it take to find a cell phone? I don’t know either.

Jim: [on the phone] Hey, where are you? Oh good. Yeah. We’re just here, we’re playing Desert Island. It’s when you pick your five favorite DVDs…
Michael: Seriously, where the hell is Dwight? Hey, call my cell phone. It’ll make it easier for him to find.
Ryan: What’s your number?
Michael: I gave it to you in the car.
Ryan: Um…
Michael: I saw you program it in.
Ryan: You got to… you got to give it to me again.
Michael: Okay. Alright.
Ryan: Now I have it.
Michael: Uh, I better tell somebody. [to fireman] Excuse me, sir…
Dwight: [coughing]
Michael: Dwight!? Great goin’. God, Man! Why did you go in there? What… Everybody was scared out of their wits, man? Oooh.
Dwight: [coughing] Everyone, okay? Uh, I have an announcement. Apparently, in business school, they don’t teach you how to operate a toaster oven. Because some smart, sexy temp left his cheese pita on oven instead of timing it for the toaster thing.
Michael: Wow. Okay. Well, I guess they don’t teach how to operate a toaster oven in business school.
Dwight: That’s exactly what I said.
Michael: Hey, did you miss that day there, Ryan?
Dwight: Were you absent?
Michael: Toaster Oven 101?
Dwight: You failed?
Ryan: I am so sorry.
Michael: Hey! I know what’ll impress everybody, I’ll start a fire. Oh, man. Bad idea. Bad idea jeans.
Dwight and Michael: [singing] Ryan started the fire! It was always burning—
Dwight: Everybody!
Michael: [singing] …since the world was turning.
Ryan: I can’t believe I started the fire.
Dwight and Michael: [sing gibberish to “We Didn’t Start the Fire”]
Dwight: [singing] … Marilyn Monroe!
Dwight and Michael: [singing] Ryan started the fire! It was always burning…
Dwight: Eat it! You gotta eat it. You have to eat it!
Michael: Okay. Rule five – safety first, i.e. don’t burn the building down. Okay? That should be a no brainer.
Michael: Oh… look! Ryan is book smart. And I am street smart. And book smart.
Michael: I’ll give you the rest of the ten tomorrow.
Michael: Rule three: Reach for the stars. And if you fail, see rule four. Rule four: Failure is not an option.
Dwight: Oh, my God. Ryan is gonna love these.
Michael: Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. And at the end I will reveal, that they were all just one rule.
Dwight: That is so cool.
Michael: Mmm-hmm.
Dwight: Plus you can go, “Rule five, see rule six. Rule six, see rule five.”
Michael: No, I’m not trying to trick him. I’m trying to be a good mentor. So…
Dwight: Kill or be killed.
Michael: No.
Dwight: Shoot to kill, or kill to shoot.
Michael: No, come on, Dwight, I have to have 10 of these by lunch, I promised Ryan.
Dwight: You could ask for an extension.
Michael: I’m not asking the temp for an extension unless I really need it.
Michael: Yes, yes, I ran out first. A captain is always the first one on the ship and the last one off the ship. And this parking lot is our ship when the building is on fire. So, I ran out onto the ship.
Michael: When I was Ryan’s age, I worked at Arby’s and then I worked selling cutlery for a while. Cutlery that could decimate a penny, I kid you not. There were these shears that could cut straight through a penny. So I have life experience and work experience that Ryan doesn’t, and will never have.
Michael: If I could change the life of one person, just one person. I… Actually, that’s shooting kind of low. I already did that when I was born. I changed two people’s lives. Mom and Dad. Um, if I could change the lives of 5,000 people… 10,000. No, five. I’d be satisfied with 5,000. I… 10,000 though, that’d be something. Wow, 10,000 people. Because, you know what? Even one is amazing.
 
EP 5
Michael: Happy Halloween, everyone! [notices Pam, in her cat costume] Oh… that’s great!
Pam: Hey… Happy Halloween. Jan called.
Michael: Ohh… OK.
Michael: I know why she’s calling. It’s the end of the month, and I was supposed to let somebody go by the end of the month. And somehow I’m supposed to put on a costume and smile. [dials a number on his speaker phone] Okay.
Sherri: [on phone] Jan Levinson’s office.
Michael: Hey, Sherri. Michael Scott returning.
Sherri: Oh, she’s in a meeting. Uh, she just wanted the name of the employee you let go.
Michael: Well, I’m gonna wait till the end of the day. Because the book said it’s best to wait till the end of the day.
Sherri: I just need the name of who you’re planning to let go.
Michael: I don’t know… yet. I will have to call her back.
Sherri: I know she wanted the name.
Michael: Okay… Sherri?
Sherri: Yeah?
Michael: If you were getting fired, how would you wanna be told so you could still be friends with the person firing you?
Sherri: Jan wants the name as soon as possible, Michael.
Michael: Thanks.
Sherri: Mm-Hmm.
Michael: I’ll call her back. [talks softy, to himself] Wish I could fire Sherri.
Sherri: Hey, I’m still here.
Michael: Okay! I’m sorry.
Sherri: Yeah.
Michael: No?
Sherri: OK.
Michael: Bye.
Sherri: Hanging up now.
Michael: I mean you hear about layoffs in the news, but when you actually have to do it yourself, it is heavy stuff. It’s… these are people’s lives you’re talking about.
Pam: [entering] You wanted me?
Michael: Yes.
Pam: [notices Michael’s costume] Papier-mache?
Michael: Yes.
Pam: Hmm.
Michael: Yeeesh.
Pam: Mm-hmm.
Michael: Um, Pam, I have to let somebody go today. This is, uh, the hardest thing I’ve ever had to do.
Pam: Why did you put it off until Halloween?
Michael: Because it’s very scary stuff.
Pam: I think it’s gonna put a damper on the party a little.
Michael: You’re worried about the party? There’s a man’s life at stake here.
Pam: So it’s a man?
Michael: No. Or a woman. A human life. If you had to guess, who it would be based on their job performance… and who you think deserved to be fired – who would that be?
Pam: I just answer the phone.
Michael: And… sometimes you just let it go to voicemail.
Pam: You’re costume is fantastic! [laughs]
Michael: I know. I sent away for it in July from a catalog. [bobs his head around, causing the costume head to jiggle around]
Pam: Oh no, don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t. [Michael laughs] Aah! [laughs, then leaves] Okay…
Michael: Oh, man. Okay, I have to fire somebody.
Michael: Hey.
Oscar: Michael.
Michael: You guys excited about the party?
Angela: Yeah.
Michael: It’s gonna be fun.
Kevin: Yeah.
Angela: Yes.
Michael: [looks to Oscar] Oh, boy… look at you! Haha. Showing your colors. Bet you wish you wore a dress every day.
Oscar: What are you implying?
Michael: All good. Happy Halloween. What happened to all those spooky decorations that we had? The cobwebs and such?
Angela: You know, I don’t know. We put them all up last night.
Michael: Well, you know what? Go buy some more. I’ll approve the overages. Sound good?
Angela: Yeah.
Michael: Good. Oh, yeah, also about budget stuff. Um, I’m going to need you to find, like a, a full employee salary, plus benefits, like fifty grand. I’m going to need you to find 50 grand in the numbers.
Angela: But we don’t keep two sets of books.
Michael: Well, that’s not what I’m saying. Just, you know, find it. Pretend that your jobs depend on it.
Michael: Mmm-hm-hmm. Interesting take on Dorothy. I love it. Hey, you know what would even be better? Soccer ball and cleats.
Kelly: Why is that?
Michael: “Bend It Like Beckham.”
Kelly: Oh, like … the movie about the Indian girl who plays soccer?
Michael: [laughs] Yeah. That would be perfect.
Kelly: Yeah, I mean, I guess I could do that. I don’t really play soccer or anything.
Michael: Well, I don’t really have two heads. So…
Michael: Who do you think it should be?
Dwight: Jim. Definitely.
Michael: No, Jim brings in money.
Dwight: Phyllis.
Michael: Eh.
Dwight: Stanley. Pam. Oscar. Meredith. Kevin. Angela.
Michael: It’s not a popularity contest. Although it does make sense to fire the least popular because it has the least effect on morale.
Dwight: One of the warehouse guys.
Michael: [turns to the fake head, listening] What? There was someone left off that list? Who?
Dwight: Who is he saying?
Michael: You’re right, I didn’t even think of him.
Dwight: No, Michael.
Michael: Yeah, that’s actually a really good idea.
Dwight: No, not me.
Michael: Yeah… I could.
Dwight: Not Dwight.
Michael: I’m not saying that’s what he said.
Dwight: I know that’s what he said.
Michael: [listening to his head] What?
Dwight: Tell him, not Dwight.
Michael: That is not a very nice thing to say about him.
Dwight: Tell him to stop.
Michael: Are you kidding?
Dwight: Quiet, you.
Michael: I agree. He’d land on his feet.

Michael: So. How did it go with Stanley? How… how’d he take it?
Dwight: He wouldn’t listen to me
Michael: Ahh, come on.
Dwight: If you want to fire him, you’re going to have to tell him yourself.
Michael: I don’t wanna fire Stanley. I never said that. I’m certainly not going to do it myself. Get those big, baleful, eyes staring at me. Yikes. Just, okay, just… [waves Dwight away]
Dwight: This is called leveraging an offer. [walks into Michael’s office] Michael, can I talk to you for a moment?
Michael: Oh, God.
Dwight: I just thought you should know that I was just offered a job with better pay, better benefits and a better title at Cumberland Mills.
Michael: Fantastic!
Dwight: And I turned it down.
Michael: What?! That would’ve solved all my problems.
Dwight: Out of loyalty to this company…
Michael: Oh, you idiot.
Dwight: … so I was hoping to be made Assistant Regional Manager officially.
Michael: If you left, I wouldn’t have to fire anybody.
Dwight: But then you wouldn’t have me here.
Michael: Big deal. Oh, it would’ve worked out so well. Can you get it back?
Dwight: It’s in Maryland.
Michael: You can call. Can you call ’em?
Dwight: I can’t. I… I suppose I coul… no. They never really made me an offer anyway.
Michael: Wohahah! Why are you torturing me?! God.
Jim: Honestly, I don’t think Michael has the slightest clue of who he’s gonna fire. I think he keeps hoping that someone’s going to volunteer. Uh, or be run over by a bus before the deadline. But in the end, really, what’s going to happen is it’s gonna be the first person to give him a dirty look in the hall. And therein lies the true essence of his charisma.
Michael: [clearing his throat and interrupting Jim’s talking head] Can I speak to you a minute?
Jim: Um… yes.
Jim: Michael, I really didn’t mean to…
Michael: Help. Me.
Jim: I’m sorry?
Michael: I want you to role play firing me. I want you to fire me, and I will take it.
Jim: Oh, you want me to be you?
Michael: Yes.
Jim: Okay.
Michael: I want you to be me, and I will be Creed.
Jim: Oh, are you firing Creed?
Michael: No, no, no. That’s just the first thing… came… in head.
Jim: We should switch seats in order to…
Michael: Yes, that’s a good idea.
Jim: Alright. [they stand up] Excuse me.[They sit down] I’m really sorry, but I have to let you go. And it’s purely budgetary. It’s not personal…
Michael: Aaaahh! I’m gonna kill myself!
Jim: Wow.
Michael: I’m going to kill myself, and it’s your fault!
Jim: That’s an overreaction.
Michael: Corporate is really breathing down my neck. And they’re saying this has to be done by the end of the month.
Jim: Is this you? Are you being you, or is this Creed? Are you…
Michael: I… this is Creed.
Jim: Okay.
Michael: I’m improvising, so just try to keep up. [phone rings]
Jim: Oh, hold that thought. Hold that thought.
Michael: And I’m very angry, and I want…
Jim: [picks up the phone] Michael Scott here.
Michael: I’m gonna kill you. I’m going to kill you for firing me.
Jim: Toby? Mm hmm. [looks back to Michael] I really have to take this Creed, so it was really worth…
Michael: Get off, get off. No, no. OK.. just get off.[sits back down in his chair and waves Jim off.] Just, just… yeah.
Michael: Uh, hey… Creed?
Creed: Huh?
Michael: Could I talk to you for a second?
Michael: You are great. Very ambitious. And I feel like you want more than this little office has to offer. And I understand that you’d wanna just spread your wings, and fly the coop.
Creed: What are you telling me?
Michael: I… we’re gonna have to… You… you want something better.
Creed: No, I don’t. I wanna stay right here.
Michael: No, you wanna leave.
Creed: No, I wanna stay here.
Michael: Why… why are you making this so hard?
Creed: Um, I think there’s a misunderstanding, Michael.
Michael: I think you’re right.
Creed: Can I go?
Michael: No, of course you can’t go. We haven’t even started this horrible process of… okay, Creed. I need to let somebody go today. They told me I need to let somebody go. And as much as I think you’re a great guy, and I like you, you’re… you’re, goodbye.
Creed: Let’s fight it.
Michael: Hmm?
Creed: Let’s call Jan and fight this thing together like the old days.
Michael: What old days? What are you talking about?
Creed: Did you start the paperwork yet?
Michael: It’s right here on the desk, yeah.
Creed: You don’t have to do this, Michael.
Michael: I can’t, I can’t…
Creed: Undo it!
Michael: I can’t change anything. This is the way…
Creed: No, you have the power to undo it.
Michael: I don’t… okay, just listen.
Creed: Michael, undo it!
Michael: Don’t…
Michael: Yeah, I went hunting once. Shot the deer in the leg, had to kill it with a shovel. Took about an hour. Why do you ask?
Michael: I have to fire someone today, okay?
Creed: Fine. Fire someone else. Fire Devon. He’s terrible. I am so much better at my job than Devon.
Michael: Okay, well… I already picked you. And you know that. So, unless I just go through with this, you’re always gonna look at me as the guy who almost fired you.
Creed: No, no, no, no, no, no. I will forget so fast. You will be my savior. You’re they guy who gave me my life back. Thank you. I knew you’d see it my way Michael. God Bless you. You’re a fine man.
Michael: Don’t…
Creed: Listen, you will not regret this either. Devon is terrible; No one’s gonna miss him. Good, good, good.
Michael: Devon, could I talk to you for a sec?
Devon: Creed’s an idiot, you know that.
Michael: Well, he…
Devon: No, no, no, no, no, no! You had it right the first time.
Michael: Well, maybe I did.
Devon: Exactly. You gotta go with your gut, man.
Michael: Huh. No! I can’t, no. I can’t go back. I would look like an idiot.
Devon: That’s why I’m being fired?
Michael: No.
Devon: So you might not look like an idiot?
Michael: No. It was all the stuff that I said. It was the business downturn, the cutbacks, and, and…
Devon: This is unbelievable!
Michael: I just hope that you and I can remain friends.
Michael: Devon, wait, please.
Devon: What!
Michael: Look, look. In addition to severance, and everything, I want to give you this gift certificate to Chili’s. From me. Okay? No hard feelings.
Devon: [takes the gift certificate and tears it up] Kevin, Jim, Pam, Kelly, Toby, Oscar, Meredith, Phyllis, Stanley, or the temp. If any of you wanna meet me for a drink, I’m going to be at Poor Richard’s. And the rest of you can go to hell!
Angela: [watching nearly everyone leave] What about the Halloween party?
Pam: Oh, hey, Jim. Wait, stop. Um, I’m sorry… for pushing you towards Cumberland. Seriously, if you left here, I would blow my brains out.
Jim: [motions for her to follow him] Come on.
Jim: That’s just a figure of speech, you know? Blow your brains out? Come on. All it really means is that we’re friends. Who else is she gonna talk to if I’m gone, right? I mean, if she left, I wouldn’t blow my brains out. Of course, I would take that job in Maryland. Because it’s double the pay, and soft shell crab just happens to be my favorite food.
Michael: I love Halloween. You know, it’s just, it’s just fun. Every year, it’s just fun. Last Halloween I came as Janet Jackson’s boob. It was topical. People got a… a big kick out of it. The year before that, I came as Monica Lewinsky, and I wore a stained dress. The year before that, I also came as Monica Lewinsky. And before that, I was O.J. It was pretty funny. Oh, I wish you were here last year.
Children: [ringing the doorbell of Michael’s Condo] Trick or treat!
Michael: He… Hey, hey, hey, hey! How you doing? Wow! You guys looks great.
Kid: I’m a bumble bee.
Michael: You look great! And you’re a princess?
Kid: A fairy princess.
Michael: A fairy princess. You’re very… .
Kid: I’m a lion.
Michael: You’re a lion. [trying to to open a bag of candy] Wow, I want to hear your, your… Oh! [the bag tears open, spilling all the candy] Oh, okay, that’s all yours. That’s all yours. Grab it, grab it. You know what? You guys are getting all of these.
Michael: Hey, you. Big Jim. And Phyllis. Working hard, Phyllis?
Phyllis: Mmm-hmm.
Michael: Of course. You’re always working hard.
Phyllis: Thanks.
Michael: Keep it up. And there’s Stanley. No costume? Well, no, not trying to fit in. I wish I had your confidence, I really do.
Stanley: Something wrong, Michael?
Michael: No, no. What could possibly be wrong? Everything’s great. Just keep living your lives. Everything’s gonna be fine. [sighing] You are all such wonderful, innocent people.
Toby: Michael?
Michael: What? What?
Toby: Michael, do you have the name of the employee you’re letting go? I’d like to start working on out-placement.
Michael: Fine. If you are so anxious to see a head roll, it’s you. There. You brought it on yourself. Too bad. Can’t say that I’m sorry. It’s a relief.
Toby: I don’t report to you, Michael. I report to the head of HR in New York.
Michael: You asked for a name, I gave you a name. Now you’re not doing your job. Why don’t you just resign?
Toby: They would just send someone else. You need to have an HR representative.
Michael: Just know that if I could have fired you, I would have.
Toby: I know, Michael.
Michael: I’m going to have to do this Sopranos-style. Just whack him. Guys, could you take the freight elevator, please?
Vance Refrigeration Worker #1: Hey, you wanna see a really messy show? Follow us around. Come to our office.
Michael: You know what? That’s my foot.
Michael: I will handle it in the best way possible, but in case he or she goes postal, you will be available to subdue. Am I correct?
Hank the Security Guard: Who is it?
Michael: I don’t know. Hey, are you on our payroll or are you employed by the building?
Hank the Security Guard: Building.
Michael: Oh, shoot. Okay, well, just have your pepper spray ready.
Hank the Security Guard: You’re on your own.
Michael: All right. All right, this is it. By the time I get back to our floor, I will have decided. [elevator bell dings] Wow, that’s a fast elevator.
Michael: I have a proposal, everybody. Listen up. Now, Corporate has been really breathing down my neck to make some pay cuts, but I refuse to fire anyone. So, I was thinking that maybe all of you would take a 10% pay cut and that would save the money. Yeah?
Stanley: Yeah, We’re not doing that. I have kids in college. Make a decision.
Michael: Okay, great. Fine. Well, then, if anyone is annoyed later at what goes down, you know who to blame. Stanley. Not the guy who was trying to be creative. [turns around to find Toby standing behind him]
Toby: Michael, it’s almost 5:00.
Michael: Leave me alone, okay?
Michael: Do you want some coffee?
Creed: No, no. I had some, thanks.
Michael: [slurping] Oh, wow. How long have you worked here? How many years, Creed?
Creed: Fifteen years, I think.
Michael: Yeah, that’s right. Fifteen years and three months. Wow, you were hired before I was. Must be thinking about retirement.
Creed: Oh, no. I need the money.
Michael: Why?
Creed: What do you mean, “Why?”
Michael: It’s just that you never got married and you live in an apartment.
Creed: I don’t know. I got nephews.
Michael: Yeah.
Creed: Yeah. Yeah. And I buy them stuff, you know. Oh, made some bad investments. Why are you asking me this?
Michael: Just trying to be your friend.
Creed: Well, you never asked me about my life before, is all.
Michael: Of course, I did. I always… Yes, I do.
Creed: Do you have something specific you wanted to talk to me about?
Michael: Are you pulling my leg or…
Creed: No.
Michael: You have no clue why I’ve asked you in here?
Creed: I do not.
Michael: Oh, here we go. This… um, here’s the deal.
Michael: Yes. Actually, I have. I have been on a hunting trip. I shot a deer in the leg. I had to… I had to hit him, I had to hit him with a shovel for about an hour, so he… That’s good eating, though. Venison’s very gamey. It’s hard to watch, though. It’s hard to… It’s hard to hit another living thing in the face with a shovel for about an hour. That… I haven’t been hunting since then. I, I… ‘Cause that’s, you know, where’s the joy in that? Where’s the… There’s no sport, really. Especially when you’re the one with the shovel. And they’re the one just lying there. Um… I would have rather hit it with my car or something and just… I was just smacking the hell out of that thing. That was a mess. And we just left him there. I didn’t eat it. I didn’t want to eat that. That guy. Why do you ask?
Jan: [on the phone] This is Jan.
Michael: His name was Devon.
Jan: Excuse me?
Michael: The human being man’s name was Devon.
Jan: Devon. The… Oh, is this the man that you…
Michael: [talking over Jan] Yes, yes, yes.
Jan: The person that you fired, Michael?
Michael: Yes, it is.
Jan: Is that what you’re… Okay. Oh, you sound a little… A little upset.
Michael: Uh, well, I am. A little. Justifiably. My Halloween is ruined.
Jan: Well, I have to say that I am impressed, Michael. I know… I know how hard that was.
Michael: Do you? I don’t think you do. Devon was one of my best buddies. And now he hates me.
Jan: Well, I’m glad you did it, Michael.
Michael: [talking over Jan] You’re glad?
Jan: And so, good job. Good job.
Michael: Thanks. Thanks so much. You think it was good?
Jan: Yeah. Good job.
Michael: [talking over Jan] Think I did a good job? Great. I feel good. I’m gonna give myself a pat on the back.
Jan: [talking over Michael] Yup. Yes.
Michael: There. I’m doing it. Right there. Great.
Michael: You people are revolting. By far, the least popular people here. I should have fired you. Who knew Devon was so popular and had so many friends. So well-loved.
 
EP 6 
Michael: [singing and tapping on his coffee mug] I don’t want to work, I just want to bang on this mug all day.
Ryan: Did you ask me here for any specific reason?
Michael: Uhh, yes, I did, here’s the dizzle. I have a very top secret mission for you. I want you to update all the emergency contact information.
Ryan: Why is that secret? [Pam knocks and walks into Michael’s office]
Michael: [to Pam] Hello, oh God, busy work. Ahh, get away, cretin.
Pam: Umm, I put stickers so you know where to sign.
Michael: Yes, thank you. I know where to sign.
Pam: It’s just last year you…
Michael: Last year they were out of order, weren’t they Pam?
Pam: Well, the last pick-up for overnight deliveries is at seven. So you need to have them signed by then. Or much earlier.
Michael: Chillax, Pam. Stop Pam-M-S-ing. That’s pretty good. Um, actually, I’m sending Ryan on a top secret mission. Tell her what it is.
Ryan: Updating emergency contacts.
Pam: Well, is that really a priority?
Michael: Is it a priority? Oh I don’t know, um, what if there is a tornado, Pam? People’s legs are crushed under rubble. “Please, would you be so kind as to call my wife? No, I can’t because we don’t have any emergency contact information because Pam said it wasn’t a priority.” Think. Think with your head, Pam. Ok, well. She walks out. That’s the problem with being a boss is that when you are tough they resent you and when you are cool they walk all over you.
Ryan: Catch-22.
Michael: Catch-22. Yes. Why don’t you give me your contact information to start with, ok, what’s your cell?
Ryan: Hello?
Michael: [in his office on his cell phone, talking in a fake high voice] Hey Ryan. This is Michael Jackson calling from Wonderland.
Ryan: Do you mean Neverland?
Michael: This is Tito.
Ryan: What?
Michael: Calling from… [Ryan hangs up]
Michael: [Taps on the glass in his office to get Ryan’s attention] Pick up.
Ryan: Hello?
Michael: [in a high pitched voice] This is Mike Tyson.
Michael: And this is more a ying-yang thing. The ‘Michael’ all cursive, the ‘Scott’ all caps. Left brain, right brain. Or, duality of man.
Pam: Could you practice on the forms?
Dwight: No women or children, unless provoked.
Jim: Ok, Roy?
Dwight: Warehouse guy. Doesn’t count.
Jim: Ok. Michael? Could you beat up Michael?
Michael: Yeah, yeah, I don’t think that would happen.
Dwight: Because we’re friends.
Michael: Because I would kick his ass.
Jim: Well, Dwight’s a purple belt, so…
Michael: So? I’ve beaten up black belts.
Jim: Uh, how did you know they were black belts?
Michael: They told me. After. You see, I used to run with a very tough crowd. Street Fighter types. Real, real bad people, I’m just lucky I got out.
Michael: And after that, nobody ever messed with the ‘Damn Rascals’ ever again.
Jim: Sounds tough. When you’re a Jet, [starts snapping] you’re a Jet all the way, right?
Michael: You were a Jet?
Angela: Have you signed the expense reports yet?
Michael: Yes, in theory, I have. I just need to cross some t’s and dot some i’s. Alright, I’m going to be in my office if anybody needs me. [Puts Dwight in a headlock] Hoo-hah. Oh, wow, sleeper hold. That’s my rebuttal. Shhh. Hoo. You are the weakest link.
Dwight: Argggg!
Michael: I’m friends with everybody in this office. We’re all best friends – I love everybody here. But sometimes your best friends start coming into work late, and start having dentist appointments that aren’t dentist appointments. And that’s when it is nice to let them know that you can beat them up.
Michael: Just hit me. You’ll see.
Jim: I can’t. I just got a manicure.
Michael: Oh, queer… [realizes he is on camera] eye. Queer eye. That’s a good show. Important show. Go ahead. Do it.
Jim: Just have Dwight punch you.
Michael: Oh yeah, that would be kind of worthless because I know a ton of fourteen year old girls who can kick his ass.
Jim: You know a ton of fourteen year old girls?
Dwight: What belt are they?
Michael: Look, Dwight is a wuss. When we rented ‘Armageddon’…
Dwight: No!
Michael: … he cried at the end of it. He did.
Dwight: Michael, I told you, it was because it was New Year’s Eve and it began to snow at exactly midnight.
Michael: Oh, Bruce Willis. Are they going to leave him on the asteroid?
Dwight: Ok, I’ll punch you.
Michael: Ok, here we go. Alright, come on.
Dwight: Kiyah!
Michael: Fuuuaaaahhhhh… oohhhhh!
Jim: Are you ok? Are you sure you are alright?
Michael: Yeah. [Jim opens office door for Michael] Thank you.
Dwight: I come from a long line of fighters. My maternal grandfather was the toughest guy I ever knew. World War II veteran. Killed 20 men then spent the rest of the war in an Allied Prison Camp. My father battled blood pressure and obesity all his life. Different kind of fight.
Dwight: [to Kevin, who he is teaching to fight] Take this pen and stab me with it.
Michael: [Pam knocks on his door] Go away.
Pam: I just have a quick question.
Michael: I haven’t signed them, ok?
Pam: No, it’s not that. Um, I was just wondering, since I’m probably going to have to stay late, could you ask Dwight to stay late too so he can walk me to my car?
Michael: Come in. Um, Pam, I hate to break this to you but Dwight can’t stop you from being mugged. He’s just not tough enough.
Pam: He’s a purple belt. That’s really high.
Michael: Oh, I could beat up Dwight. That’s ridiculous. I could murder him.
Pam: It’s just out there, you…
Michael: Oh, so that’s what they are saying?
Pam: Yeah.
Michael: Ok, alright, where is Dwight?
Jim: Uh, Kitchen.
Michael: Ok.
Kelly: Hi-yah!
Dwight: Good.
Kelly: Wow, that’s actually pretty cool Dwight.
Dwight: Now watch, let me take you from behind.
Kelly: What?
Michael: Watch out Kelly, he might sucker punch you.
Dwight: I didn’t sucker punch you, Michael.
Michael: No, Really?
Dwight: In case you remember, I was defending my honor… like a samurai.
Michael: Really? Well, the offer, Dwight, was for one punch which I absorbed. I had no idea that there would be a second punch. So, catch-22.
Dwight: Ok, fine. Tit for tit. Give it your best shot. Two punches. Go!
Michael: Look, if we were in a bar right now, there would be two punches: me punching you and you hitting the floor.
Dwight: No, I would block your first punch rendering it ineffective.
Michael: Really?
Dwight: Yeah.
Michael: You know what? You’re just lucky that we are at work right now.
Jim: Ooh, what about, uh, Dwight’s dojo?
Michael: No, they must have class.
Dwight: No, it’s free during the day. It’s fine.
Michael: Look…
Dwight: I’ve got the key.
Toby: Michael…
Michael: Hey, Toby.
Toby: Any word on those time cards?
Michael: I’ve got an idea: why don’t you leave right now. Why don’t you walk away from the room, ‘kay? Fine. We’ll go at lunch. Pam, make an announcement. Figure out carpools.
Michael: I recognize that. That is Japanese for California Roll.
Ira: Uh, no, it’s not.
Michael: I think it is. A guy told me about that.
Ira: Actually, it’s a symbol for eternal discipline.
Michael: Oh.
Michael: Alotta rules. Alotta rules. On the street we didn’t have any rules. Maybe one – no kicks to the groin, home for dinner.
Ira: Shi mate!
Dwight: Hiii! [kicks Michael]
Michael: Hey!
Ira: Alright, break.
Michael: What the hell was that?
Dwight: Yes!
Ira: Dwight – awarded a point.
Michael: No.
Dwight: Eat it!
Michael: Alright, that’s the way you want it.
Dwight: Two more.
Michael: Play dirty, huh? Ok, game on, man.
Kevin: Sweep the leg.
Michael: I’m comin’ atcha man. Ok, purple belt, ok. I got him.
Dwight: No.
Michael: I got his pants.
Dwight: It was my pants.
Ira: No points for pants.
Michael: Dwight, you have… No, you have something… God, you look like such an idiot! [Lots of yelling and flailing of arms by Michael and Dwight]
Ira: Clean single kick, gentlemen.
Michael: Go on, I dare you to kick there again. Kick there again, I dare ya.
Ira: Ok, break. Break.
Dwight: No holding.
Michael: You can’t see. You can’t see. Good boy. Good boy. Great boy. Two points, three points, four points. I win. I win. [Michael is using his head guard to hit Dwight] Eight points. Nine points. [Begins to hock a loogie]
Dwight: No, stop it! Come on! Michael.
Michael: Open your mouth.
Dwight: No, Michael!
Michael: You talkin’ to me? You talkin’ to me? “Raging Bull.” Pacino. Oh, I want that footage. I want it. I need it. Ah, I have to get back to work. I have lots of work… Oh, oh check this out. Come here. [Michael opens his blinds and looks at Ryan in the parking lot] There he is. Mr. Temp. Having lunch by the car. Let us play with him. This’ll be hilarious. [Calls Ryan on the phone, Ryan doesn’t pick up after seeing that Michael is calling] Oh, we’re playing phone tag.
Michael: My emergency contact is Todd Packer. Todd F. Packer. Do you know what the F. stands for?
Ryan: Fudge?
Michael: [knock at the door] Yeah… uh, come in. Oh, hey Karate Kid. The Hillary Swank version. Hi. How are ya?
Dwight: I need to change my emergency contact information from Michael Scott.
Ryan: Ok, to what?
Dwight: Just put “The Hospital.” Contact number: just put 9-1-1. [Dwight leaves]
Michael: He is such a sore loser. You heard, obviously, that I mopped the floor with him this afternoon. You know what, um, do yourself a favor and just keep me as his contact and I will call the hospital. Cut out the middle man.
Michael: [Knock at the door] Yeah.
Ryan: I have the emergency contacts.
Michael: Yeah, just throw them on the chair. I’ll take it from here. So, whatcha up to this weekend?
Ryan: Uh, hanging out with some friends, probably.
Michael: If you’re doing anything crazy, give me a shout.
Ryan: Yeah, alright, I’ll um, see you Monday.
Michael: Alright, bye.
Michael: Dwight?
Angela: Michael, did you finish yet?
Michael: This close. Dwight, may I speak with you for a minute?
Dwight: I’m busy.
Michael: Well, [points at himself] busier. Making the time.
Stanley: Michael, can’t your conversation wait till Monday.
Toby: We want to go home.
Michael: Well, you don’t even have anyone to go home to, Toby.
Pam: The shipping place closes in a half hour.
Michael: I know, but I’ve been carrying the load on my back all day, and if everybody would just chip in a little bit, it’d might help me out. What do you say? Let’s gangbang this thing and go home. Good? Dwight.
Michael: I have been testing you the entire day. Did you know that?
Dwight: Of course.
Michael: And I am happy to say that you have passed. So effective immediately I am promoting you from Assistant to the Regional Manager to Assistant Regional Manager.
Dwight: Michael, I don’t know…
Michael: I know, I know, I know, I wouldn’t be offering it if I didn’t think you could handle it.
Dwight: I can handle it. I can. Wow. So I guess this will just be my office.
Michael: No, no, title change only.
Dwight: I’ll have Pam send out a memo.
Michael: No, no. Three month probationary period. Let’s not tell anybody about this right now.
Dwight: Just a formality.
Michael: Absolutely but not really.
Dwight: Michael, I have so much to learn from you.
Michael: Yes you do.
Dwight: Thank you, Sensei.
Michael: And, ditto.
Michael: I told Dwight that there is honor in losing. Which, as we all know, is completely ridiculous, but there is, however, honor in making a loser feel better which is what I just did for Dwight. Would I rather be feared or loved? Um, easy. Both. I want people to be afraid of how much they love me. And I think I proved that today at the dojo.
Jim: Okay. Michael. Could you beat up Michael?
Michael: Yeah, I don’t think that would happen. See, I used to run with a very tough crowd, street fighter types. Real, real bad people. I’m just lucky I got out. I was a bad ass mo-fo. Stanley knows what I’m talking about.
Stanley: Excuse me?
Michael: I’ve never lost a fight. You know why? My motto. Never say die.
Dwight: You just said it. You just said it.
Michael: No, that’s not how I meant it.
Dwight: Die. You just… You said it.
Michael: Shut up, Dwight.
Master: Sir, your shoes.
Michael: Yes.
Master: You’re gonna have to take them off. It’s a sign of respect.
Michael: Oh. Well, in my office, if you took off your shoes, it would be a sign of disrespect. Stinkyfeetville. Kind of a ying-yang. [exclaiming] Oh, stretchin’. I like to stay tight. Compact. [Dwight screaming]
Master: Here’s your gear. Please put this on.
Michael: Do you have, do you have anything in, like, black?
Michael: Stan the man.
Stanley: Hi, Michael.
Michael: Did you hear about the fight? Well, it wasn’t much of a fight, actually.
Stanley: No. Are those purchase orders signed?
Michael: I opened a big can of whoop-ass on him.
Stanley: Huh? What?
Michael: I went medieval on his heinie.
Stanley: Are those purchase orders signed?
Michael: Hey, Stanley. I don’t tell you how to do your job, do I? He…
Stanley: Look, I just want to have a job, Michael. If we don’t get these purchase orders…
Michael: Grow a pair, Stanley. Right? There not gonna downsize because I miss a lot of deadlines. That’s not how business works, okay? [sighs] Okay.
Michael: [door opening] All right. Here you go, Princess. Just finished with part one.
Pam: This is what you had Ryan do.
Michael: Yes, under my tutelage.
Pam: Well, what about the other stuff that has to be in today?
Michael: If you didn’t badger me with so many questions, Pam, I could be done with it by now.
 
EP 7
Jan: This is a projection of the county’s needs…
Michael: Wow, graphs and charts, somebody’s really been doing their homework. Looks like USA Today.
Jan: Thirteen schools, uh, two hospitals…
Jim: So this possible client they’re talking about, actually a big deal. It’s Lackawanna County. Our whole county. And if we get this, they may not have to downsize our branch. And I could work here for years. And years. [groan] Years.
Jan: So when we get to the Radisson, I’d like to, um-
Michael: I changed it. To Chili’s.
Jan: Excuse me?
Michael: Radisson just gives out this vibe, “Oh, I’m doing business at the Radisson”. It’s kind of snooty. So.
Jan: You had no right to do that, Michael.
Michael: Here’s the thing. Chili’s is the new golf course. It’s where business happens. Small Businessman Magazine.
Jan: It said that.
Michael: It will. I sent it in. Letter to the editor.
Jan: Alright. But you will let me run this meeting.
Michael: Uh huh, uh huh. [under his breath] Power trip.
Jan: What?
Michael: Ok, let’s do this thing. [to Pam] Wish us luck.
Dwight: Good luck, Michael. Good luck, Jan.
Jan: Thank you.
Michael: [under his breath] Kiss ass. Ok, probably going to go late tonight. Burning the midnight tequila. So, I think you could all just take off now.
Jan: Michael, shouldn’t take more than an hour.
Michael: Well…
Jan: Do you always shut down the entire office when you leave for an hour?
Michael: No, no. That would not be efficient. Actually, they just don’t get very much work done when I’m not here. [Jan stares at Michael] That’s not true. I know how to delegate, and they do more work done when I’m not here. Not more. The same amount of work is done, whether I am here or not. [another Jan stare] Hey, everybody, listen up. This is what we’re gonna do. You sit tight, until I return. Sound good? Doesn’t matter, it’s an order. Follow it blindly, mwahahaha, ok? Alright, ciao. [to Oscar] Adios!
Jan: So which way is Chili’s?
Michael: Uh, I’ll drive.
Jan: Oh, no, that’s alright. I wanna leave straight from there.
Michael: It’s just a couple blocks away, so… boy, you really don’t know Scranton, do you?
Jan: I know Scranton.
Michael: At all!
Jan: Alright.
Michael: You ever been to Scranton, Jan? Dar de-
Jan: If it’s a couple blocks away-
Michael: Dar de dar.
Jan: Ok.
Michael: Jan Levinson-Gould. Jan is cold. If she was sitting across from you on a train and she wasn’t moving, you might think she was dead.
Michael: We should come up with a signal of some sort.
Jan: Why would we need a signal?
Michael: Well, in case one of us gets into trouble, the other one can signal-
Jan: What kinda trouble are you planning on getting in, Michael?
Michael: Well, I… it could be either of us.
Jan: You’re gonna let me do the talking, we agreed on that.
Michael: Yeees.
Michael: Hello? Christian?
Christian: Yes.
Michael: Thought that was you. Hi. Michael Scott. This is Jan Levinson-Gould.
Jan: Just Jan Levinson.
Michael: No Gould?
Jan: No. [To Christian] Thank you very much for meeting with us. Have you been waiting long?
Christian: No, not long.
Michael: Uh, Jan, what happened?
Jan: Michael.
Michael: Is Gould dead? What uh-
Jan: Michael, we got divorced, ok? [to Christian] I’m so sorry. Excuse me.
Michael: Wow, you’re kidding me! Do you wanna talk about?
Jan: Michael. [to hostess] Uh, could we have a table for three, please?
Michael: When did this happen?
Jan: We’re in a meeting.
Michael: Ok.
Hostess: This way, please.
Jan: Christian.
Michael: Alright, after you.
Christian: Thank you.
Michael: [mouths “Wow” to the camera]
Jan: I thought we could start by going over the needs of the county.
Christian: Right. Well, Lackawanna County has not been immune to the slow economic growth over the past five years. So for us, the name of the game is budget reduction-
Michael: Awesome blossom.
Jan: What?
Michael: [to Christian] I think we should share an Awesome Blossom, what do you say? They are awesome. Want to, Christian, blossom?
Christian: Sure.
Michael: Ok, it’s done. Actually, [turns around] Megan, may we have an Awesome Blossom, please, extra awesome? Now it’s done.
Jan: So-
Michael: I heard a-
Jan: If you have a-
Michael: Very very funny joke the other day. Wanna hear it?
Jan: Christian, you don’t have to listen to this.
Christian: It’s ok, I like jokes.
Michael: Ok.
Jan: Just the one.
Michael: Just one joke. Ok. Well, if it’s just gonna be one, I will think of a different joke. Umm… let’s see… choo choo choo.
Pam: Dunder-Mifflin, this is Pam.
Michael: Pam, it’s Michael. I need you to go into my office and check some data for me.
Pam: [to Michael on speakerphone] Ok, you want me to read ’em?
Michael: Yes.
Pam: Ok. Um, a fisherman is walking down Fifth Avenue walking an animal behind him-
Michael: No.
Pam: When-
Michael: Nope. Told it. Not as good as you think. Pick another one.
Pam: Ok. There’s a transcript between a naval ship-
Michael: Oh ho ho, yea! Bingo! And a lighthouse. Yes. That is hysterical. Could you start that one from the beginning?
Pam: Sure. There’s a transcript between a naval ship and a lighthouse.
Michael: First guy says “Well, I’m an astronaut, so I drive a Saturn”. And the second guy says, “Well, I am a pimp, so I drive a cheap Escort”. And the third guy says “I gotcha both beat, I’m a proctologist, so I drive a brown Probe”.
Christian: Ohhh no! [laughs] Oh my God, that’s funny! I almost had Awesome Blossom coming out of my nose!

Michael: [making the mouth on his tie talk] Yum! Yum yum yum! [Christian laughs] That’s delicious! I love it!
Jan: We would probably be upset with ourselves if we went this whole night without talking business, so, Dunder-Mifflin can provide a level of personal service to the county that the warehouse chains just can’t match.
Christian: Well, we are out to save money.
Jan: What’s the bottom line?
Michael: Bop! Be blah bop, be boo boo bop.
Michael: That’s why I wanted a signal, between us, so that I wouldn’t have to just shout non-sense words. That’s her fault.
Michael: Did somebody say “baby back ribs”? Hmmm? Hmmmmm?
Jan: I don’t think Christian has time for that.
Christian: I have time.
Michael: [singing] I want my baby back, baby back, baby back [Christian laughs]
Michael and Christian: [singing] I want my baby back, baby back, baby back-
Michael: [singing] Chili’s baby back ribs…
Christian: So after watching my mom go through so much pain, I decided to keep that promise, that I made to her, and take care of her.
Michael: Woo, well, this brings us to Jan. Truth or Dare? Tell us about your divorce. Ohh, ohh.
Jan: Oh no, Michael, Michael, please. No, really.
Michael: Oh, so you’re not gonna play? She’s not playing.
Christian: It’s not fair.
Michael: She’s not playing the game.
Jan: We’d been fighting for a while-
Michael: Check please.
Jan: He didn’t want kids, but I knew that going into it. But he also knew that I did. I guess I thought that he would change his mind; he thought that I would change mine.
Christian: You didn’t.
Jan: I was stupid.
Michael and Christian: No.
Michael: No, you were not stupid. Gould was stupid. Right?
Christian: That’s right.
Michael: You know?
Christian: You were really brave! You, you put your arms out there, you slit your wrists.
Michael: It’s true.
Christian: You said “World, this is my blood! It’s red, just like yours. So love me!”
Jim: I had plans to meet a friend tonight. Which I had to cancel. But this is cool, too. I’m not a complainer.
Jim: [Pam lights a candle] Wow.
Pam: For the bugs.
Jim: Nice. That’s excellent, because bugs love my famous grilled cheese sandwich.
Pam: Yes… nice! I can’t remember the last time someone made me dinner.
Christian: Right down the street?
Michael: Uh huh, Kenneth Road, born and raised. Spent my whole life right here in Lackawanna County and I do not intend on movin’. I know this place. I know how many hospitals we have, I know how many schools we have. It’s home, you know? I know the challenges this county’s up against. Here’s the thing about those discount suppliers. They don’t care. They come in, they undercut everything, and they run us out of business, and then, once we’re all gone, they jack up the prices.
Christian: I know.
Michael: It’s bad.
Christian: It’s terrible.
Michael: It, you know what, it really is.
Jan: Uh- [Michael signals for her to shh]
Christian: I don’t know. I guess I could give you guys our business, but you have to meet me half way, ok, because they’re expecting me to make cuts.
Michael: Well, corporate’s gonna go ballistic, but, uh, you think we could Jan?
Michael: [waving to Christian] See ya.
Jan: Bye… thanks. [pumps fist] Yes!
Michael: We did it!
Jan: We got it!
Michael: Nailed it. Nailed it! Come here.
Jan: I am really- [Michael kisses Jan] Thrilled. [Michael and Jan kiss again] Let’s go.
Michael: What!?
Jan: Let’s go.
Michael: Goin’. Ok. Where we goin’? Doesn’t matter. Goin’ to the go go. [nervous laugh] Oh-ok.
Michael: Morning, Pam. Hey.
Michael: No, nothing happened. I-I swear, nothing happened. What, I’m, totally being serious. A gentleman does not kiss and tell, and neither do I. [laughs] No, seriously, guys, I’m not, I don’t want to go into it at all. It’s off limits. Fine, I took her back to her hotel and we made out for a little while. It was great. I mean she told me about her divorce, we talked for about five hours, she fell asleep on my arm. So.
Michael: Hello, Dwight.
Dwight: Did you do her?
Michael: Who.
Dwight: Jan Levinson-Gould.
Michael: Uh, no, no, no Gould.
Dwight: Did you do her?
Michael: This is none of your affair because she is your boss-
Dwight: And she is your boss.
Michael: And she is a woman. She is a strong, soft, thoughtful, sexy woman. And you know what? I don’t think that I can sit here and let you talk about her that way without me defending her honor. [to camera] Jan, I defend your honor. [to Dwight] Is that all?
Michael: I know we have to register as a consensual sexual relationship with HR. My question: do I do it as the man? Does she do it as my superior? I don’t know. That leads to other issues that we may have in our relationship. It’s, uh, [phone rings] Excuse me. Hello? Hi! Just talking about you. The camera? No. Uh huh. How’s traffic? I miss you. What. Ok. Well, if it was a mistake, it was a wonderful mistake. No. [to camera] Would you excuse me? [to Jan] No, I did not intentionally get you drunk. Um hmm. No, no. [goes under his desk] This is just a fight. This is just a first fight of many fights we’re gonna have. Right. No. Wha-so-I don’t understand, you wanna see other people. Only other people. Wh-why, ok, I think you’re still a little bit drunk [to camera which is now under desk] Excuse me? Excuse me?! [to Jan] I think you’re, yes, why don’t you just come back here, go to the hotel, have a few drinks and-no, no. I didn’t slip you something!
Michael: Have you ever heard of Doctor David Friendly?
Pam: Hmm…
Michael: Doctor David Friendly’s Egg Yolk Diet. It’s, it’s kind of unique. It’s just, my diet the last couple months has consisted mostly of eggs yolks and cottage cheese. And, um, what you do, you don’t just have the egg yolks, it’s not like a Rocky thing. You do like hard boiled eggs and I got one a those melon ballers [shot of Michael peeling boiled egg] and I, it’s just like a little ice cream scoop, and I just scoop out the middle of the egg and just pop it in my mouth. I don’t even, I don’t even use a plate anymore. Uh, the first couple weeks I did, but you know what, boom, I keep a melon baller in my desk so if I have a hard boiled egg [Jenna breaks as Pam and laughs] I know, I know! But you know what? It’s perfect. I know it sounds ridiculous, it sounds ridiculous, but you know what? Dr. David Friendly, he came up with this thing. The guy, I think he was like four hundred pounds when he started, and he started with this… I, well, the melon baller was my idea.
Kevin: Most of that is good.
Michael: [throwing away food from the fridge] Not today, Kevin. Cannot be around carbs today. You know what one loaf of bread would do to my abs?
Jan: I’m almost there, so we should have plenty of time to go over the presentation.
Michael: Uh huh.
Jan: And, uh, hmm, excuse me, I’ve also confirmed the meeting this afternoon at four p.m.
Michael: Conflict!
Jan: What?
Michael: I have a conflict with that.
Jan: What do you mean?
Michael: Uh, I have a pajama party. At the Playboy Mansion. With the bunnies.
Jan: Michael. I need you to take this seriously.
Michael: I can’t get out of it!
Jan: Michael-
Michael: Ok, alright.
Jan: Are you hearing me?
Michael: I’m hearing you, meeting confirmed.
Jan: This is a very important-
Michael: Meeting confirmed. Would you like your confirmation number? Please grab a pen, because I will only be repeating this once.
Jan: [sighs] I’ll see you in ten minutes.
Michael: 42897. Ok.
Michael: What is a closer? A closer is a sales term for someone who always gets the job done. And that is me. A B C, always be closing. Glen Garry, Glen Ross. “Hey, gimme the Glen Ross leads.” “No way, they’re just for closers.” “Do you know who you’re talking to?” “I’m Michael Scott.” “Really? Well, take any lead you want.” “No thanks, I don’t need ’em.” Because I have a client list [taps screen] right here in my computer. [sighs] So suck on that.
 
EP 8
Michael: Pam, could I see you in my office?
Pam: It’s performance review day, company-wide. Last year, my performance review started with Michael asking me what my hopes and dreams were, and it ended with him telling me he could bench-press 190 pounds. So, I don’t really know what to expect.
Michael: Pam, you’re trustworthy-
Pam: Thank you.
Michael: And a woman-
Pam: Oh, no.
Michael: And I want you to listen to a voicemail from my boss. [Jan on recording] “Michael, it’s Jan. I guess I missed you. I’ll, uh, be there this afternoon for performance reviews. I hope it’s understood that that will be our only topic of discussion. See you soon.” First impressions?
Pam: Uh, just off the top… I think she’ll be here this afternoon.
Michael: My boss is coming in today, the lovely Jan Levinson-Gould will, well, no Gould. The Gould has been [makes slashing neck hand motion] swack, divorced. Um, the awkward part is that this will be the first time that we’ll be seeing each other since, well, uh, it was really nothing. We just sort of got caught up in the moment. The vulnerable divorcee gives herself to the understanding, with rugged good-looks, office manager. Just, uh, she didn’t want it to continue for some reason. It, we both, I didn’t want it, we both didn’t want it to continue. Was not professional. Um, when people say something’s mutual, it never is. But this was mutual.
Michael: [playing Jan’s message] “I guess I missed you.” I guess I missed you. So, she misses me?
Pam: She missed you.
Michael: But then she goes on to say “that will be our only topic of discussion”. That doesn’t mean anything, those are just words.
Pam: I have one idea of what it means.
Michael: Ok. Yeah, what, what?
Pam: Well I don’t think you’re gonna be very happy with this.
Michael: Ohhh, great. Well, now I’m in a terrible mood. Let’s do your performance review-
Pam: Because she’s conflicted. She has to be professional, but she’s fighting feelings… for you.
Michael: Ah, why, that’s great news? That, that, then why would, why would I not like that?
Pam: Um, just cause, that, you work together, and it might be awkward.
Michael: Oh, wow, wow. Alright, let’s listen to that again. [plays Jan’s message] “Michael, it’s Jan. I guess I missed you”.
Stanley: Sometimes women say more in their pauses than they say in their words.
Michael: Really?
Stanley: Oh, yes. Let’s listen to it again. And this time, really listen to the pauses.
Michael: God, Stanley, that’s frickin’ brilliant. How do you know that? Did you learn that on the streets? Sorry.
Stanley: Oh, no, that’s ok. I did learn it on the streets. On the ghetto, in fact.
Michael: No kidding.
Michael: Good work, Stanley. Great performance review. Stanley in the house, everybody. Woo! Angela, your turn.
Pam: Michael?
Michael: Yeah?
Pam: Jan’s on the phone for you.
Michael: Oh; Angela, you were totally satisfactory this year.
Michael: Interesting. Jan is calling me. Maybe it wasn’t so mutual after all. [puts Jan on speakerphone] Yeah?
Jan: Michael.
Michael: Jan! To what do I owe this pleasure?
Jan: I am returning your many calls.
Michael: Well, hello to you, too. Um, yeah, I was just um, I just wanted to get some closure on uh, what transpired between us at the meeting we had in the parking lot of the Chili’s.
Jan: No. No, we won’t be discussing that, Michael. The only things I wanna talk about during your performance review are your concrete ideas to improve your branch.
Michael: Well, surely this uh, review is a formality because of what happened uh, at our meeting in the parking lot of Chili’s.
Jan: Uh, your review is anything but a formality, Michael.
Michael: Oh.
Jan: I expect you to forget anything that you think may have happened between us and exhibit completely professional behavior.
Michael: Been thinking about you.
Jan: Ok, that is an example of completely unprofessional behavior.
Michael: Um, I don’t see how that’s unprofessional. Just-
Jan: Michael.
Michael: Yep.
Jan: Are the cameras with you…
Michael: No.
Jan: …in your office?
Michael: They are not. Yes, they are. [Jan hangs up] That’s my girlfriend.
Michael: Pam, I have ideas on a daily basis. I know I do. I have a clear memory of telling people my ideas. Um, is there any chance you wrote any of my ideas down? In a folder? A “Michael-idea” folder?
Pam: Sorry.
Michael: That’s unfortunate. How ’bout the suggestion box? There’s tons of ideas in there.
Pam: What suggestion box?
Michael: The suggestion box that I put out, and people could be put in suggestions anonymously? Maybe there’s prizes?
Pam: Oh, yeah. Uh, I think I remember that from back from when I first started.
Michael: Why don’t you find it and tell people to get theirs… never mind, I’ll tell them. Hello, everybody? Yeah, uh, attention, please. Jan Levinson’s coming, very soon, and so, we’re going to have our weekly suggestion box meeting, so you can all get your constructive compliments in a.s.a.p.
Ryan: Don’t you mean constructive criticism?
Michael: What did I say?
Kelly: You said “constructive complements”; that doesn’t make any sense.
Michael: Well, Kelly, that was neither constructive nor a compliment, so maybe you should stop criticizing my English and start making some suggestions. ‘K?
Michael: Hi, Jan. How are you?
Jan: I’m good; how are you?
Michael: Good to see you.
Jan: Nice to see you.
Michael: Ok. [tries to kiss Jan’s hand] Ok, why don’t we just step into my office? We’re gonna go in here.
Jan: Can we please go in your office?
Michael: Yep, right after you. Apres-vous. [mouths to Pam] No calls.
Kevin: Oooo.
Michael: Alright [takes Jan’s coat].
Jan: Thank you.
Michael: It’s nice to see you.
Jan: Nice to see you too, Michael.
Michael: Really?
Jan: Not like that.
Michael: Oh, well.
Jan: You know Michael, I think I need to make something clear right off the top. I’m not going to discuss anything with you other than Dunder-Mifflin business.
Michael: Alright.
Jan: Period.
Michael: Yep.
Jan: Do we understand each other.
Michael: Absolutely.
Michael: I’m a little confused. ‘Cause first it’s all like kissy-kissy. And then it’s like all regret. Because “Oh, I regret that.” But, “Wait, I’m still gonna call you.” But, but, “We’re just gonna talk business. And I may come down and fire you if you don’t do your job.” But what were talking about when we first kissed? Business.
Jan: So are you still in the middle of the performance reviews then?
Michael: No, no, no, I finished all of that. I’m very fast. I’m not too fast. Not like wham-bam-thank ya ma’am. But I do say thank ya ma’am. But, I’m, I’m not like wham-bam. Not that there’s anything wrong with wham-bam. If it’s consensual. [cold Jan stare] We’re talking about office stuff. Can I ask you a question?
Jan: No.
Michael: This is a business question. It’s nothing personal, I promise.
Jan: Fine.
Michael: Are you wearing a new perfume today?
Jan: How is that a business question?
Michael: Well, you’re wearing it at the office. And [smells Jan] it, I’m sorry, but no offense, but it’s really sexy.
Jan: Please don’t smell me, Michael.
Michael: I don’t understand- [phone rings] Hold on. Sorry. [answers] Yes, Pam.
Pam: Michael, it’s time for the suggestion box meeting.
Michael: I’m kind of in the middle of something. I wish you wouldn’t interrupt.
Pam: You told me to buzz you about the suggestion box meeting when Jan was here.
Michael: I did not, not, not use those words.
Jan: Uh, I’d like to sit in on that meeting [to Pam] is it happening right now?
Michael: No, it’s in like ten minutes.
Pam: Everyone’s waiting in the conference room.
Jan: Great. Very good.
Michael: Why are we here? Because I value your opinions. Now, I know a lot of don’t think that I read your suggestions, but I do. I just sift through them every week and I really look and scrutinize to see what you guys are writing. Um, so, let’s, uh, just read some of these suckers. Alright. Number one: “What should we do to prepare for Y2K?”
Dwight: What should we do to prepare for Y2K?
Kelly: I thought you read these every week.
Michael: Well, obviously this one got stuck in the box. [to Jan] That happens occasionally.
Dwight: It happens occasionally.
Michael: And, um, one down. Next suggestion: “we need better outreach for employees fighting depression”. Ok, alright, enough with the jokes. Nobody in here is suffering from depression.
Jan: That sounds serious, Michael.
Michael: Oh, ok, well, yeah, who wrote it?
Dwight: Tom?
Michael: Tom. Then it is a joke because there is nobody in here named Tom.
Phyllis: Tom? He worked in accounting up until about a year ago. [blank stares] Tom? [acts like she’s shooting herself in the head] Pow.
Michael: Oh, that guy? That guy was weird. Alright, next suggestion.
Dwight: Next suggestion.
Michael: Arrr, dooby dooby do. “You need to do something about your B.O.”
Dwight: You need to do something about your B.O.
Michael: Ok, I don’t know who this suggestion is meant for, but it’s more of a personal suggestion and it’s not an office suggestion. Far be it for me to use this as a platform to embarrass anybody.
Toby: Aren’t the suggestions meant for you?
Michael: Well, Toby, if by me you are inferring that I have B.O., then I would say that is a very poor choice of words.
Creed: Uh, Michael, he wasn’t inferring, he was implying. You were inferring.
Michael: Was I, Creed?! Ok, well, you know what? I am implying is that when we’re on an elevator together, I should maybe take the stairs, because talk about stank. Not that I would ever say something like that in public, and I never have, and I never will. I just think it’s something that we should all be aware of. Ok? Now that we’ve learned this, let’s continue. See, this is good, we’re learning and we’re figuring some stuff out. “You need to do something about your coffee breath”-
Dwight: You need-
Michael: Ok.
Dwight: To do something about-
Michael: Shut up, shut up, shut up, Dwight, OK. I don’t think you people are grasping the concept of the suggestion box.
Angela: Sometimes you talk to us real close.
Michael: Yeah, is that hard for you? Alright, well-
Angela: Well, when you have coffee breath-
Michael: I’ll work on that-
Angela: It’s hard.
Michael: Let’s keep going. Keep it going. Yep. What do we have here? We have somebody’s piece of gum. Somebody put a piece of gum in there. This is not a, a garbage can, this is the future of our company. This is not a place for gum. I don’t wanna have to read these tomorrow.
Dwight: Yeah, who wants to come in on a Saturday?
Michael: Yeah, what? Uh, alright, next suggestion.
Dwight: Next suggestion.
Michael: “Don’t sl-“, ok, that’s blank [Dwight picks up note] Don’t, just put it-
Dwight: “Don’t sleep with your boss”? Do you think this is referring to you boning Jan?
Jan: I can’t, I can’t-
Michael: I don’t understand why you’re so upset.
Jan: Please sit down.
Michael: Let me ask you-
Jan: You’re gonna sit here and I’m gonna go sit over there.
Michael: Ok, let me ask you this.
Jan: Please, sit yourself down.
Michael: Let me ask you something.
Jan: What, Michael.
Michael: Where did you get your outfit?
Michael: I just don’t understand why you have to pretend like nothing happened.
Jan: Because nothing did, Michael. It, I’m not going to say anything more about it, and I would advise that you do the same
Michael: Look-
Dwight: Michael?
Michael: Oh my God…
Dwight: I’m sorry, am I interrupting? Oh God; were you guys making out?
Jan: No, Dwight; come in.
Dwight: Great.
Michael: What do you want Dwight?
Dwight: I am ready for my performance review.
Michael: Ok, great. Your performance has been adequate. You may leave; goodbye.
Jan: Is this how you’ve been conducting all the reviews, Michael?
Michael: You wanna talk now, good; OK, Dwight, leave.
Dwight: Uh, wait, I would like to discuss my raise?
Michael: Why on earth would we give you a raise?
Dwight: That is an excellent question. Thank you for asking. Let me bring up one word: dedication. [points to graphs] I have never been late. Also, I have never missed a day due to illness. [Michael sighs] Even when I had walking pneumonia. I even come in on holidays.
Michael: You do? How do you get in?
Dwight: I have a copy of your key.
Jan: That’s a serious offense!
Michael: That is a serious offense. Very serious. As is toying with a man’s heart.
Jan: Oh! Michael, for God sakes!
Dwight: I’d also further like to talk about my merits in the workplace.
Michael: Ok, third wheel, why don’t you do that?
Dwight: For instance, the time I brought in deer jerky for the whole office.
Michael: That was deer!? Gross, oh!
Dwight: You liked it!
Michael: Oh, did not!
Michael: What do you say, Jan?
Jan: Ok! Here’s what I’m gonna do: I’m gonna step outside, collect my thoughts, and I will return in about ten minutes.
Michael: Ok. You just, uh, clear your head.
Jan: [Dwight opens door] Thank you, Dwight.
Jan: Look, I know it’s your job, I know you have to ask, but I promise you, I’m not gonna discuss it with him, I’m certainly not gonna discuss it with you. [digs a cigarette out of her purse] Do you have a light?
Dwight: And in conclusion, I think that Lex Luthor said it best when he said “Dad, you have no idea what I’m capable of”.
Michael: That’s from Superman?
Dwight: Smallville. And that is why, I feel, that I deserve this raise.
Jan: I’m heading back to New York; Alan and I will conduct your performance review over the phone tomorrow.
Michael: Wait.
Jan: ‘K?
Michael: Wait, wait, wait, come, I just, I just wanna know why?
Jan: Michael, now is not the time or the place.
Michael: Ok, so you’re saying that there is a different time or place?
Jan: No, I am saying we are never having this conversation.
Michael: Well, ok, well never as in ‘never ever ever’, or never as in there’s still a chance?
Jan: Never, for me, always means ‘never ever ever.’
Michael: I just want to know, from the horse’s mouth, what is the dealio?
Jan: Michael, it has nothing-
Michael: Am I too short?
Jan: With your looks, ok? It’s your personality. I mean, you’re obnoxious, and rude, and, and, and stupid, and you do have coffee breath, by the way, and, and I don’t agree about the b.o., but you are very, very inconsiderate.
Michael: Really?
Jan: Really. You’re, you’re, you’re a great guy, ok?
Michael: I appreciate that, thank you.
Jan: And you were very sweet, and you stayed up with me and talked with me, cried with me, and I appreciate that-
Michael: No, I wasn’t, I didn’t cry-
Jan: At this time in my life. I just am not in the place right now where I’m looking for a relationship, so we can still work together, we can still be friends but… ok?
Michael: So my looks have nothing to do with it?
Jan: Ohhh, God.
Michael: Jan is not in a place where she feels she can have a relationship right now. And it doesn’t matter how great a guy I am. And that is all I needed; I’m good. I can go home now.
Michael: Hey, it’s 12:20; where the hell’s Dwight?
Jim: Ummm… no idea.
Michael: Never missed a day, my ass.
Pam: [Jim bows to Pam; she bows back] Thank you.
Dwight: [running through parking lot] I’m here! I’m here! I’m here! It’s ok!
Michael: Oscar, I’m ready for you.
Oscar: Today is performance-review day, company-wide, and I’m a little concerned about my review. I exceeded my sick days and my personal days because I just couldn’t take it. And I don’t have a good answer for him, when he asks me.
Michael: So…
Oscar: Michael, I don’t know what to say.
Michael: Um, you’re in accounting…
Oscar: Yes, I’m in accounting and I’m sorry and all the extra days. I know I passed my limit.
Michael: So, good, good, good. Something to work toward, being here more. I’m a big believer in people being here more.
Oscar: Yes.
Jan: I am not going to discuss anything with you other than Dunder Mifflin business.
Michael: All right.
Jan: Period.
Michael: Yup.
Jan: Do we understand each other?
Michael: Absolutely.
Michael: “I am not going to discuss anything outside of Dunder Mifflin business, period.” Okay. Now, why would Jan say she only wants to talk business and then make it clear that she is on her period? God, I don’t understand women. How about a clear signal, right? Is that too much to ask?
Jim: So, that’s… It’s great.
Michael: Yes, it is.
Jim: Yeah. You have fun?
Michael: Yes, I did.
Jim: Did you go to first base?
Michael: Hell, yeah.
Jim: Oh, yeah?
Michael: Yeah.
Jim: Did you go to second?
Michael: What?
Jim: Second.
Michael: Kind of, yeah. Over the shirt, my elbow, but…
Jim: Okay, so close call at second. Was there an infield fly?
Michael: Um, yup, wait, yes.
Jim: Pop-up?
Michael: No, there… Later there was.
Jim: Really?
Michael: Yes.
Jim: So, you got the signal from the third-base coach. You know what I’m saying? Like if there was a fly out to deep right, you know. A runner on second. He tagged up, didn’t he?
Michael: I didn’t, you know, it was… It was dark, for one thing.
Jim: Office romances. Um… [laughs] I think you should probably ask Pam ’cause she’s in an office romance, technically.
Michael: Let’s just push on, shall we?
Dwight: Pushing on.
Michael: It’s next. Just keep it. “Look on the supply shelf.” What? What is that? All right, Ryan, look on the supply shelf, would you?
Ryan: Yeah. It’s another note.
Michael: Okay, yeah.
Ryan: “Look on the windshield.”
Michael: Okay.
Dwight: Does it specify which windshield?
Ryan: I’ll check them all.
Dwight: This ought to be good.
Jim: Which one?
Dwight: Oh, no, no. It’s on the Miata.
Pam: He sees it.
Dwight: What does it say?
Jim: He can’t hear you?
Michael: Okay, field trip’s over. Come on. Could we please get back to this?
Dwight: [clapping] Come on. Let’s get back to this.
Michael: All right, don’t break any lands-speed records getting back, okay, Stanley?
Stanley: I’m back.
Michael: Christ Almighty.
Ryan: “Look under the sink in the men’s room.”
Michael: All right, next suggestion.
Dwight: Next suggestion.
Michael: “Don’t…” Okay, that’s blank. Don’t. Just…
Dwight: “Don’t sleep with your boss.” Do you think this is referring to you boning Jan?
Jan: Okay, let me make something clear. As embarrassing as this is, I feel that it needs to be said. There is nothing romantic or sexual going on with Michael and myself.
Michael: Well…
Jan: The other night, I gave him a polite congratulatory kiss because he just closed the biggest deal of his career. And that’s it. If anything else has been implied, Dwight, or inferred, Michael, Creed, it’s just not true, okay? It’s not true. So… Is everyone straight on that?
Michael: Crystal.
Dwight: There’s one more suggestion.
Michael: How pleasant. You can…
Dwight: “Way to go man, Jan’s really hot.”
Michael: Okay, I think we’re good.
Michael: Yeah, that got a little out of control. Jan’s taking a break, which is fine. I’m doing the same, just chilling. Getting my mind off of us. She’s right. I need to be more professional at the office. When I’m at work, I need to focus on work. I should call her ex-husband.
Michael: Hello, is this R. Gould? Hi there. My name is Michael Scott, I work at Dunder Mifflin. I believe I work with your wife, ex-wife, Jan. Yeah, that’s right, yes. Um… I was wondering if I could ask a personal question about her. Mmm-hmm. Okay, well, could I ask anyway? Uh-huh. Well, I’m just gonna ask. When you guys were dating was she sort of easy to get and then really hard to get?
Michael: Yeah, that Gould is a real interesting guy, a gem. I can see why he and Jan are no longer together. If my conversation with him is any measure of their relationship, he was verbally abusive, he was curt. He was… He had an inability to communicate, shall I say? He was emotionally unavailable. I don’t know how she dealt with that as long as she did.
Deleted Scene 10 Michael: Never…
Jan: Never for me always means never, ever, ever.
Michael: Well, then, Gould wasn’t kidding.
Jan: What?
Michael: Nothing, I just…
Jan: What did you say, Michael?
Michael: Nothing.
Jan: Did you call my ex?
Michael: No, I did not.
Jan: Gould, you said, Gould.
Michael: Maybe I did. Maybe I called him, I don’t know.
Jan: How dare you, Michael? My personal life is off-limits to you.
Michael: I…
Jan: Okay, how dare you do that?
Michael: I didn’t do that. I… Maybe he called me.
Jan: Why would he do that? Why would he call you, Michael? Why would my husband call you?
Michael: Ex-husband, you have to let it go.
Jan: I mean…
Ryan: “Look under the suggestion box.” “I can’t believe I kept this up all day.” Signed, me.
Michael: What is an office? Is it a group of people? Maybe. Is it an idea? Of course, yes. Is it a living organism? Exactly, yes. And any single cell organism has to have a spine, and that’s me. But the spine is always controlled by a brain, and that is Jan. But the brain needs a heart, and that is me again. So ironic. You know what? The heart is smarter than the brain. But the brain is so effing hot.
 
EP 9
Michael: It is Friday morning and it is another beautiful day in Scranton, Pennsylvania. [sees man in a turban outside] Oh my God. Ohhh. [dials phone number] Pick up, pick up, pick up, pick up. Oh, we have a serious problem here. [goes out onto office floor] Alright everybody, lock the doors, turn off the lights. Pretend you’re not here.
Jim: Are we in danger?
Michael: There’s no time to think about if this is real. Just, shh, everybody. [knock at the front door]
Kevin: Michael, should I call the… [Michael waves his hands] What?
Michael: The IT tech guy and me did not get off to a great start.
Michael: Yeah, I tried to install it myself, but, uh, you guys have these things so password-protected…
Sadiq (IT guy): That just means you have to enter your password.
Michael: Oh…
Sadiq (IT guy): What’s your password, Michael?
Michael: Oh, umm… [looks at Post-It on computer]
Sadiq (IT guy): Oh, it’s 1-2-3.
Michael: Yes.
Dwight: Mi-
Michael: AH! Guh-oood.
Dwight: Sorry.
Michael: Please don’t do that.
Dwight: Ok, I’m sorry. What is going on in there? Why is he here? What are you doing?
Michael: I can’t tell you.
Dwight: You have to tell me.
Michael: I don’t have to tell you anything.
Dwight: Look, Michael, I know you don’t want to have to think about this, but if something were to happen to you, God forbid, then I would need to know in order to take over.
Michael: Dwight, nothing is going to happen to me, ok? I’m in the best shape of my life. Look at this. [flexes his arms] Brrr! That’s strong!
Dwight: Yeah, but that doesn’t matter, you could get a brain aneurysm-
Michael: I’m not going get a brain-
Dwight: Or get hit by a car-
Michael: Stop it.
Dwight: Or a bus or a train. Get poisoned, fall in a well, step on a mine, choke.
Michael: Uh, oh, ok; if I step on a mine in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and die, you can have my job, ok? Why don’t you just go… away?
Michael: There are certain things a boss does not share with his employees. His salary, that would depress them. His bed, it— And I am not going to tell them that I’ll be reading their e-mails.
Michael: So how do you search?
Sadiq (IT guy): By keyword phrase.
Michael: Try “profits”. No! Try “Michael Scott”. “Michael” “boss” and “funny”. [Sadiq (IT guy) types; result pops up] Oh my God, wow! [chuckles] E-mail from Stanley. Stanley, Terribly nice guy. [reads e-mail] “Sorry I didn’t write back sooner; I can’t go to the game tonight because my boss Michael is an ass and making me stay late.” Well, Stanley’s an ass. Not one of our harder workers.
Oscar: Hey, what’s the deal, Michael? Why are you spying on our computers?
Michael: Oh, no, everybody; Oscar’s gone crazy! What other ghost stories do you have for us? That I’m a robot? [robot voice] I will destroy everything in my path-
Oscar: Actually, it’s just-
Michael: Beep! Bop!
Oscar: Ok…
Michael: Bommmm. Bop! Onk onk. [Tin Man voice] Oil can. Oil can.
Oscar: Tin Man. Actually we just a got a memo from IT saying you’re doing e-mail surveillance.
Michael: Oh, what? No. That defeats the whole purpose.
Dwight: So it’s true? You have access to our e-mails?
Michael: You know what the problem is?
Stanley: I think I do.
Michael: The problem is that when people hear the term “big brother”, they immediately think it’s scary or bad, but I don’t. I think, wow, I love my big brother.
Michael: Meredith has an E-vite from Jim. Barbeque at Jim’s tonight. Tonight? Wonder where my e-vitation is. Click on guest list. Angela, Stanley, Oscar, Meredith, Phyllis, Kevin, Creed. Must be… .[scrolls down list] No.
Pam: Hey, Angela-
Angela: Hi.
Pam: How’s it going?
Angela: It’s ok.
Pam: Listen, are you bringing anyone to Jim’s party tonight?
Angela: No. Are we supposed to?
Pam: No. I mean, I don’t know, I don’t think so.
Angela: Hmm… [Pam reaches towards vending machine] Excuse me.
Pam: Oh.
Michael: There’s always a distance between a boss and the employees. It is just nature’s rule. It’s intimidation mostly, it’s the awareness that they are not me. I do think that I am very approachable, as one of the guys. But maybe I need to be even approachabler.

Kevin: [to Michael] Are you gonna eat with us?
Michael: Of course. Hangin’ with my crew, crew that I am one of. Hangin’ with my Cup of Noodles. This is a meal in a cup.
Jim: Uh hum.
Michael: Hot, tasty. Reminds me of college. Lived on this stuff. Brain food. Mmmm… You know what I really, really miss about college? The parties. Everybody’d go. The athletes, the, the nerds, professors.
Pam: The professors would go to the parties?
Michael: Yeah! They were the most fun. We always invited them.
Michael: Hey there.
Jim: Hey.
Michael: Almost quittin’ time.
Jim: Yup, it’s, uh, four o’clock.
Michael: One more hour. Take care of anything you forgot to do. Hey, you know, I don’t know if you have any plans tonight, but if ya don’t, we could hang out.
Jim: Oh, um… .I can’t.
Michael: You have plans.
Jim: Uh hmm, definitely.
Michael: I do, too. I do, too.
Jim: You do?
Michael: I do, yeah. Big plans.
Jim: Because you said “do you wanna hang out”-
Michael: Tonight, I can’t do it tonight, no. Improv class, I have improv class, hanging out with my improv buds-
Jim: Really?
Michael: Yeah.
Jim: Aw, that sounds like a lot of fun.
Michael: It’s the best. It’s the best. I would not miss it for the world. But if something else came up, I would definitely not go.
Jim: Improv sounds great.
Michael: It is. Ok.
Jim: Alright.
Michael: [someone coughs] What?
Jim: I think Stanley just coughed.
Michael: Hey, Pam. Do you need me to walk to your vehicular transport?
Pam: No thanks.
Michael: Alright. Oscar, got big plans tonight with-
Oscar: I’m on a call.
Michael: Kevin, big man, big man, what are you doing tonight? Where are you off to?
Kevin: My brother is in town and we are going to see the Alaska Film Festival at the Scien-
Michael: Ok, alright.
Kevin: Oh.
Michael: Hey, Angela, rushy, rushy. Where you rushin’ off to?
Angela: I’m just leaving for the day.
Michael: Yeah, well duh. Where ya headed?
Angela: Charity. Bake drive.
Michael: Liar!
Angela: No!
Michael: You are a liar.
Angela: No, I’m not.
Michael: Dwight, oh ho, Dwight, Dwight, my loyal compadre. You and I are hangin’ tonight. The two of us. We are celebrating our freedom and our manhood. You know what? Why don’t we watch that show that you’ve been wanting to watch, that stupid Battleship Galaxy.
Dwight: Battlestar Galatica.
Michael: That’s, whatever stupid show you want-
Dwight: I can’t-
Michael: To watch tonight
Dwight: Tonight.
Michael: We’re watching it.
Dwight: Unfortunately, I’ve got plans. I have to go to practice. Soccer practice.
Michael: I didn’t know you played soccer, Dwight.
Dwight: Clarinet.
Michael: You, too, Dwight?
Dwight: Have fun tonight! Whatever it is that you’re doing, and I’ll see you Monday. [to the camera] He has no idea!
Improv Teacher: Ok, let’s get right into it. I need two people for the first scene.
Michael: [In Horshack voice from ‘Welcome Back, Kotter’] Ooo Ooo Ooo Ooo, Mr. Cart-air, Mr. Cart-air.
Improv Teacher: Ok, Michael. And… anybody? How about Mary-Beth? Come on. Ok, so you start us off Mary-Beth.
Mary-Beth: Great. [skips] La la la la la laaa…
Michael: [fake kicks in door] Boom! Detective Michael Scarn. I’m with the FBI.
Michael: Think about this; what is the most exciting thing that can happen, on TV, or in movies, or in real life? Somebody has a gun. [gasps] That’s why I always start with a gun, because you can’t top it, you just can’t.
Girl acting Pregnant: I’m supposed to meet my doctor here? Have ya seen him? He’s a very angry midget.
Michael: Boom! Freeze! Michael Scoon, FBI. You know what you did. Boom! Boom! Boom! [shoots at Pregnant Girl and another actor] Yeah, you thought that you could get away with your little ruse, didn’t you? Didn’t ya!? Well, you didn’t, because I know where ya hid the diamonds. I been on to you and your little friends for weeks. [another actor steps in] Boom! Boom! Boom!
Actor: I’m not even in the scene!
Actress: Again!?
Michael: Boom! Boom!
Improv Teacher: Stop, stop, ok, stop.
Michael: Boom! Boom!
Improv Teacher: You shot me, great. Now stop.
Michael: Why
Improv Teacher: You can’t just shoot everyone in the scene.
Michael: Well, if you hadn’t stopped the scene, you would have seen where it was going.
Improv Teacher: Ok, what about the scene they set up?
Michael: Boring.
Improv Teacher: No, it wasn’t. No more guns.
Michael: I could of-
Improv Teacher: No. No. Michael, I want you to give me all the guns you have.
Michael: Ok.
Improv Teacher: Just, I want you to get rid of all your guns and give them to me. Great.
Michael: Yehhhehh.
Improv Teacher: Yeeehh, ok.
Improv Teacher: Freeze!
Michael: I’m in.
Improv Teacher: You wanna go over the rules one more time?
Michael: No, no, no. I’m looking in my wallet for money so you can tell me my fortune.
Bill: I promise it’s worthit . Ooo, I can see you walking out of here and you’re thrilled with your reading.
Michael: What are you… [whispers to Bill]
Improv Teacher: Michael, what did you tell him?
Michael: Nothing.
Improv Teacher: Then why are his hands up? Bill?
Bill: He told me he couldn’t show it to me, but he has a gun.
Improv Teacher: Ok, let’s call it a day. Nice job, Bill.
Michael: Good, it’s good. Good work, everybody.
Bill: Oh, don’t worry. We’re all gonna carpool.
Michael: So Bernie’s, huh? We’re all going to Bernie’s? [to camera] Go to Bernie’s?
Bill: Oh sorry, we’re not going as a group, it’s just a private friend who just happens to know all of us from different ways is throwing a private birthday thing.
Michael: Right, right, right. Well guys, I’d love to go to Bernie’s with you, but, you know, I have an office party. A big office party I need to go to, so… Can’t get out of it.
Bill: Ok.
Michael: Ok, see you later. Nice job, Bill. Not.
Michael: Wow! Who opened the morgue for this thing? I’m just driving by, thought I’d drop in. [to Jim] There’s some wine. I would love a glass, if you’re gonna open it. Here ya go Temp, take my jacket! [sees Sadiq (IT guy)] Oh, come on! That guy? He is a good guy, not a terrorist. Karaoke, I love it! I am a karaoke fiend. I call dibs. I got next, I got next up. Come on, let’s get this party started, ha! Ok? Where’s that wine?
Michael: Ok, yeah, this is a duet, so, need somebody else, Pam? You wanna come up and sing this one? Need somebody else. Takers, please. [singing] Baby when I met you there was peace unknown. Kelly? Tried to get you with a fine tooth comb. I was soft inside, there was something goin’ on. This part goes to the, uh, girl. You do something to me that I can’t explain. Hold me closer and I feel no pain. In every beat of my heart, we got something goin’ on. Tender love is blind—
Michael and Jim: [singing] It requires a dedication, all this love we feel needs no conversation. Divided, together, uh huh. Making love with each other, uh huh.
Michael: We’re making love!
Michael and Jim: [singing] Islands in the stream, that is what we are, no one in between, how can we be wrong? Sail away with me…
Michael: Talk! Just talk!
Mary-Beth: I am-
Michael: Shut up!
Michael: Funny story: the way that I got into improv was, I got into improv. The story about me getting into improv was that I was walking down the street, and a race car pulls up, and the guy says “Hey you’re funny, you’re the funniest guy I’ve ever seen, or my name is not Dale Earnhardt.” [giggles] And that was an improv. Um, the real way is that I found a flyer.

Sadiq (IT guy): Do you have a question or something?
Michael: Um…
Sadiq (IT guy): About my turban, maybe?
Michael: Nope, nope. I actually wear a turban sometimes. Wanna see it?
Sadiq (IT guy): Yeah.
Michael: Got it right here. [pulls out Karnak turban]
Sadiq (IT guy): Why do you have that?
Michael: Comedy; it’s funny. It’s Johnny Carson, Karnak. It’s, um, put it back. Huhhhh, did you have Johnny Carson in your land?
Sadiq (IT guy): In Pittsburgh? Yeah, but I never really watched him.
Michael: Oh. You were forbidden.
Sadiq (IT guy): No, I’m much younger than you. I watched Conan.
Michael: Alright, I’m gonna, uhh, get a cup of coffee. Do you want some coffee er-
Sadiq (IT guy): No.
Michael: Or some tea or hummus or something?
Sadiq (IT guy): No, thank you.
Deleted Scene 4
Michael: Should have done this a long time ago. Tons of personal e-mails, huge time wasters. Uh, uh huh. Wow, like Kevin, rating the best bars in Scranton? Poor Richard’s number seven? Idiot. Stupid load. [phone rings] Yeah.
Pam: Hey, Michael, accounting needs your approval on-
Michael: Yeah, I’m busy right now. [hangs up]
Michael: Here’s a helpful suggestion for Jim. Jim, instead of e-mailing Amazon, to try and get that CD that you didn’t receive, I suggest that you go to Visa and tell them to cancel the charge.
Jim: Yeah, definitely didn’t need help with that, but, yeah.
Michael: It’s seems like ya did though-
Jim: Oh?
Michael: Jim. Lots of e-mails to Amazon, lots of wasted computer space. Alright, let’s get back to work.
Michael: [moves chair to Jim and Dwight’s desks] Ooo, bleh bleh bleh.
Dwight: Where’s your tie?
Michael: I don’t know. Just felt like taking it off. Man, work can be just so damn frustrating don’t ya think, Jim?
Jim: Uh, yeah, I guess.
Dwight: What’s going on, Michael. Talk to me.
Michael: I don’t know, same old stuff. Same old. Boss just been ridin’ my ass.
Dwight: Oh no! Jan!? What’s goin’ on?
Michael: I don’t wanna talk about it. I just wanna hang out, just be one of the guys.
Dwight: The most important one of the guys.
Michael: That’s not the point.
Dwight: That’s exactly the point. You’ve hit a slump. It happens to the best of us. You just have to remember, you know-
Michael: Yeah.
Dwight: Where you come from, and who you are.
Michael: Ok.
Dwight: You know, you have worked so hard for this. You are the boss; you can buy and sell us with just a snap of your little finger.
Michael: Ok yes, I would never do that.
Jim: Yeah, no one can snap with their little finger.
Michael: Ha.
Dwight: Jim, this is hardly the time.
Michael: No, this is completely the time, this is perfect time. This is just guys gently ribbing each other, it’s what it’s all about, just hangin’ out. Enjoying friends, all being the same. Worker bees.
Dwight: And their king bee.
Michael: No, just bees, just bees hanging out, buzzing around.
Dwight: Master bee.
Michael: I’m not a master bee.
Dwight: Queen bee.
Michael: I’m just a bee, Dwight, ok, just a bee, just buzzin’.

Michael: Five o’clock. Time to go get my improv on. [drinks] Little bit of the comedy juice. Mmm. Alright, see if you can guess what this is. [roars and flails his arms] That is a dinosaur getting ready to go to improv class. Just a taste of the improv.

Michael: I need to know… who shot Johnson!
Mary-Beth: Uh, President Johnson. Um-
Michael: Shut up!
Mary-Beth: Ok.
Michael: I have a right mind to shoot you right in the head.
Mary-Beth: I, I killed him. You’re right! It was me!
Michael: Just shut up! I don’t wanna hear anything more from you.
Improv Teacher: No, listen to what she’s saying.
Mary-Beth: Alright, I’ll be quiet if we can make some kind of deal. A deal?
Michael: Pow! Pow! Pow! Pow! No deal. Not with Michael Scarn, FBI. Michael Scarn doesn’t make deals. Michael Scarn shoots and then asks questions later. [blows on his fake gun]
Improv Teacher: Good, good.
Michael: She was kind of tripping me up, cause she was, um, I was trying to get something going, when I was over her with the gun, and she like kept changing the story.
Mary-Beth: I don’t think… he was saying-
Michael: Well, you kept-
Mary-Beth: He kept saying “shut up”-
Michael: Going into nuclear something; that’s not where the scene was going.
Mary-Beth: I-
Bill: It goes wherever.
Michael: Well, it goes, it goes in the best direction, and that was not the best direction.
Mary-Beth: I felt like he was ordering me around, cause he-
Michael: Well, he, Michael Scarn, that character, orders people around, and that’s, you should of just gone-
Improv Teacher: All your characters order people around though, and-
Michael: Well…
Improv Teacher: There’s stronger choices.
Michael: I don’t think there’s any stronger choice than being a really strong character.
Mary-Beth: We’ve seen you do that character before though. I mean, you know, that’s cool.
Michael: Well, it’s, like, well, it’s, you know, when refine it, refine a character down to its essence, that’s…
Mary-Beth: Like Jim Carrey or something.
Michael: Exactly, thank you.
Mary-Beth: Right, well I wasn’t saying that-
Michael: I appreciate that.
Mary-Beth: Nah, I know, I just meant that… he shot me, I just-
Michael: Or Ryan Stiles, something like that.
Mary-Beth: Yeah, ya know maybe, he made me get on the ground, and I didn’t feel safe in this game.
Michael: You shouldn’t have been, ’cause you were dealing with Michael Scarn. That was exactly what I was hoping to achieve, so that is probably the best thing you could have said, that’s a compliment.
Improv Teacher: You succeeded.
Michael: Good work.
Mary-Beth: Yeah.
Improv Teacher: Ok, for the next exercise, let’s everyone pair up.[everyone picks a partner] And everyone got somebody? Ok, good. [Michael is partner-less] Uh, ok, uh, why don’t you go out in the hallway and go through all the rules in your head. Ok, you take a break and sort of run through the rules in your head. Ok, stay there.
Michael: I’ll just throw out some suggestions.
Improv Teacher: Ok, you guys wanna start? [to Michael] Don’t throw out any-
Michael: They’re in a whorehouse.
Improv Teacher: Suggestions.
Michael: And he’s a proctologist. [to teacher] What?
Improv Teacher: We don’t need a suggestion for this one; it’s gonna come from them. [to other students] It’s a game called “Yes, and?” and uh, you will say the first sentence. And uh, you’re telling a story-
Michael: First sentence is: “I’m a proctologist”.
Improv Teacher: We’re not gonna get a suggestion for this one, it’s gonna come from them. [to students] Ok, you’re gonna say the first sentence and then she will say yes to that and then she’ll add something to the story, like you’re telling a story. [looks at Michael and then students] Oh yeah, what was he doing? Ok, why don’t you take a break? Since you don’t have a partner.
Michael: Alright, I’m ready here.
Improv Teacher: Ok.
 
EP 10
Dwight: Go. Get the door.
Michael: Here we are.
Dwight: Go. Push!
Michael: Oh god.
Dwight: Push!
Michael: No, no, turn it around.
Dwight: Really shove it.
Michael: You’ll break it.
Dwight: Shove it through! Break it!
Michael: You shove it. Shove it back! Here we go. Don’t break the branches, Dwight.
Michael: All right.
Dwight: I got a splinter.
Michael: Well, suck it up. We all have problems. Hey, everybody, look what we have! [laughs] Nice, huh?
Dwight: I’ve got it leveraged. Push. Straight up.
Michael: On three. Ready? Big, one, two, three.
Dwight: One, two, three. [they push the tree up and it breaks through a ceiling tile.]
Michael: Merry Christmas!
Michael: Did it work?
Kevin: [holds up the piece of tree he just cut off with a paper cutter] Well, sort of. Why did you get it so big?
Michael: A, that’s what she said, and B, I wanted it to be impressive. The biggest day of the year deserves the biggest tree of the year.
Kevin: But what are we going to do with this hacked off part?
Michael: Well, that is a perfectly good mini-tree, Kevin. And we are going to sell that to charity. That’s what Christmas is all about.
Michael: [comes into the conference room in a Santa hat and beard] Merry Christmas! Ho, ho, ho, [points to Ryan] pimp. I’m kidding. What do we got, what do we got? How many plates are we getting?
Angela: Fifty.
Michael: Double it. Double everything. Double ice cream. Double napkins. Double it. On me.
Michael: It was a tough year. I had to fire somebody this year. This party has to really rock. Check it out. Christmas bonus. 3,000 G’s. I got this for helping save the company money. So I guess some good came out of firing Devon after all. Maybe I should call him and tell him that.
Michael: I want people to cut loose. I want people making out in closets. I want people hanging from the ceilings, lamp shades on the heads. I want it to be a Playboy Mansion party. And also, I want you to spread the word that I will have my digital camera. And I’ll be taking pictures all along the way. And the best and craziest thing that happens will be on the cover of the newsletter. Incentive.
Pam: You do realize that we can’t serve liquor at the party.
Michael: Yeah, I know. Damn it. Stupid corporate wet blankets. Like booze ever killed anybody.
Michael: No! No way! It… no.
Darryl: Come on, Mike, let me borrow the hat for just a couple of hours.
Michael: You wanna be Santa?
Darryl: Yeah.
Michael: Have you ever seen Santa?
Darryl: Yeah, I’ve seen Santa.
Michael: Okay.
Darryl: Who cares?
Michael: Well, I’m sorry. It just doesn’t work.
Dwight: Michael, I would like to be the elf.
Michael: That makes sense because he has elfish features.
Michael: You get something good this year?
Jim: I think I did a pretty good job.
Michael: Yeah? Who did you have?
Jim: Well, I can’t tell you cause it’s a secret.
Michael: I think I got something pretty nice for my guy.
Jim: Yeah?
Michael: I spent a lot of dough. Lot of dough. Wow.
Jim: Well, there’s a $20 limit, right? So .. ?
Michael: Yeah. I wanted this party to be really special so I sorta went above and beyond.
Jim: That’s great. Well don’t tell me who it is, cause I can ..
Michael: It was Ryan. Yeah. I have Ryan.
Michael: All right, let’s count it down, like Rockefeller Center. Ready?
All: Three, two, one. [very dim lights come on the tree]
Michael: Not great.
Phyllis: I’m sorry, everybody.
Pam: I think the tree looks nice.
Dwight: Hey, I could get some flares from my car.
Michael: No, no. Shake it off, everybody. Just, let’s do Secret Santa.
Michael: Presents are the best way to show someone how much you care. It’s like this tangible thing that you can point to and say, “Hey, man, I love you this many dollars worth.”
Dwight: All right, next. Ryan. [tosses present]
Michael: No, don’t!
Ryan: [unwraps present] Whoa, a video iPod.
Michael: Whoa. Wow. Jeez. Somebody really got carried away with the spirit of Christmas. That was me, I got a little carried away.
Ryan: Wasn’t there a $20 limit on the gift? This is 400 bucks.
Michael: You don’t know that.
Ryan: Yeah, you left the price tag on.
Michael: I did?
Ryan: Yeah.
Michael: What? Oh, shoot. Wow. Okay, well, who cares? It doesn’t matter what I spent. What matters is that Christmas is fun, right?
Dwight: Michael.
Michael: Oh hey, for me. What is in here? [opens a handmade oven mitt] Oh, come on.
Phyllis: I knitted it for you.
Michael: An oven mitt? Okay. [walks out]
Michael: So Phyllis is basically saying, “Hey Michael, I know you did a lot to help the office this year but I only care about you a homemade oven mitt’s worth.” I gave Ryan an iPod.

Michael: I got it! We are going to turn Secret Santa into Yankee Swap.
Jim: What is Yankee Swap?
Michael: One person chooses a gift. The next person can either choose a gift or steal that person’s gift. If your gift gets stolen, then you can steal somebody else’s gift or choose a new gift.
Jim: I thought that was called Nasty Christmas.
Pam: Yeah, we call it White Elephant.
Michael: Well, I call it fun!
Oscar: Why are we doing this?
Michael: Because it’s better. Because it’s more special.
Angela: It sounds mean.
Michael: Shut it. No, it’s not. Okay, just give it a shot.
Michael: Okay, Meredith is up first. Here’s the deal. You can either pick a new gift or you can steal somebody else’s gift that they’ve already gotten, like the oven mitt.
Meredith: I’ll take the teapot.
Jim: Oh, shouldn’t we … I bought that specifically for Pam.
Michael: Yankee Swap! That’s what makes it fun. Pam, you can steal the oven mitt now.
Michael: I think this is going great.
Michael: Everyone wants the iPod. It’s a huge hit. It is almost a Christmas miracle.
Michael: Oh, well, Oscar, you little gourmand, you have the next turn.
Oscar: I’ll take the … teapot.
Meredith: Damn it.
Michael: [holding oven mitt] I hope nobody takes this baby, cause this is great. Wow, look at that fine craftsmanship. Somebody really put a lot of work into that. It’s beautiful.
Meredith: I’ll take the oven mitt.
Michael: Sucker! See, I wanted somebody to take it. Boom! Reverse psychology.
Michael: Reverse psychology is an awesome tool. I don’t know if you guys know about it, but basically you make someone think the opposite of what you believe and that tricks them into doing something stupid. Works like a charm.
Michael: [opens present] “In addition to these paintball pellets, your gift includes two paintball lessons with Dwight Schrute.”
Dwight: You and me, Michael. Yes!
Michael: Who wants to take paintball lessons? How is that better than an iPod?
Dwight: I never said it was better than an iPod.
Michael: Last gift. Kevin.
Kevin: I want the foot bath.
Michael: [after Phyllis leaves suddenly] What is she so upset about?
Pam: Maybe because you hated her present so much.
Michael: Come on! I think that Yankee Swap was a big hit! I think it’s a success and I’m the one who ended up with Dwight’s stupid paintball pellets.
Jim: Yeah, but, Michael, the point is that we all bought gifts for specific people.
Stanley: And you should have just bought a $20 gift like everyone else.
Michael: Well, I didn’t. I got a big bonus because I fired Devon, and I used the money to buy something awesome. Sue me!
Oscar: You got a bonus check?
Pam: How much?
Michael: It wasn’t. It wasn’t that much. It was $3,000.
Stanley: All right, I’m done now.
Michael: Unbelievable. I do the nicest thing that anyone has ever done for these people and they freak out. Well, happy birthday, Jesus. Sorry your party’s so lame.
Liquor Store Clerk: It comes to $166.41.
Michael: All right, now, you’re the expert. Is this enough to get 20 people plastered?
Liquor Store Clerk: Fifteen bottles of vodka? Yeah, that should do it.
Michael: Cool, cool. Box it up.
Michael: Uh-oh. Looks like Santa was a little naughty.
Angela: What is that?
Michael: This is Christmas spirit, as in spirits, booze.
Meredith: We can drink?
Toby: We’re really not supposed to serve alcohol.
Michael: Zip it, Toby! Just .. I mean, it’s a party. Come on. If I can’t throw a good party for my employees, then I am a terrible boss. Who wants a drink?
Meredith: Me. Please.
Michael: Go, here we go!
Michael: Anybody making out in here? [checks hallway] Not yet, give it time. Oh, hey, Ebenezer, boink. [takes picture of Jim] Okay, how’s it going in here? [takes picture of Meredith and Kevin]
Ryan: We’re running low on cups. Do you want me to just run out and get some?
Angela: There should be some ..
Michael: No, no, no, no. We’ll find some, don’t leave the party.
Phyllis, Meredith, Michael, Kevin: One, two, three. [do a shot]
Michael: Kudos to Ryan, king of the party committee.
Ryan: Oh, no.
Michael: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Ryan: I really did not do anything.
Michael: Oh, no, no. No false modesty, my friend.
Dwight: This is so awesome.
Michael: Not bad. And if it couldn’t go to Ryan, you are the guy I’d want it to go to.
Dwight: Thank you.
Michael: You’re welcome.
Todd Packer: [grabbing Michael around the neck] Merry Christmas, asswipe!
Michael: No way. Oh, you’re kidding me. Packer! Yes! Todd Packer, ladies and gentlemen!
Todd Packer: [rapping] What’s up my nerds. Check it out. [points at the mistletoe stuck down his pants]
Michael: Oh, no, no. Oh look at that. Icing on the cake.
Todd Packer: Pacman need a drinky.
Michael: Oh, let’s fix you up. Who wants to fix up .. Toby. Toby’s gonna fix you up.
Michael: Darryl. There you go. [hands him the Santa hat] You earned it.
Darryl: That’s okay, Mike.
Michael: No, no, no, no. I really, really want you to have it.
Darryl: All right. Thanks, man.
Michael: Hey, Merry Christmas.
Michael: [coming out of his office] Lampshade on head! It’s happening!
Oscar: Michael? Poor Richard’s?
Michael: Yeah, that sounds good.
Michael: Christmas is awesome. First of all, you get to spend time with people you love. Secondly, you can get drunk and no one can say anything. Third, you give presents. What’s better than giving presents? And fourth, getting presents. So, four things. Not bad for one day. It’s really the greatest day of all time.
Michael: Hey, Meredith. Heading over to Poor Richard’s?
Meredith: Yep.
Michael: Cool, cool, cool. Do you need a ride? [Meredith drops her top. Michael takes a picture] All right, let’s head out. Sounds good. Do you have a coat?
Meredith: Yeah.
Michael: Okay!
Michael: Remember on that animated special when they taught the uh, the monster to put the star on top? That’s Dwight. Dwight’s the monster that we taught to put the star on top of the tree. You take his teeth out, and he could put the star on top of the tree.
Michael: Phyllis and Angela and Meredith are helpers. I guess Angela’s kind of… Angela’s little. Phyllis and Meredith are not little. Pam is sort of a medium helper.
Dwight: Okay. Christmas lights? Good. Tinsel? Good. Star? Good.
Michael: Dwight is… Dwight looks like Spock to me. He always wears the ears, and I always give him grief about looking like Spock, and he hates it because he has a different pair of ears that he wears to be Spock, for some reason.
Oscar: Man, I really wanted that. I really wanted the shower radio, too.
Michael: Well, thank God you didn’t steal my oven mitt. And Oscar, you little gourmand, your turn.
Oscar: I’ll take the tea pot.
Meredith: Damn it.

Michael: Oscar, paint ball pellets.
Oscar: I guess I’ll take the last gift. Cool.
Pam: It was supposed to be for Meredith, ’cause she said she likes my drawings.
Meredith: Thanks. I wish I could’ve had it. Do you wanna trade?
Michael: Yeah. Like anybody would want an oven mitt. [Phyllis gets up and leaves the party]
Michael: See, that’s what Christmas is all about to me, is when you see someone open a gift and you think, “Man, I wish I got that.” I mean, that’s just such a great feeling, to watch other people envying a gift that you gave to somebody else. I don’t know, it’s just… I don’t know, just makes you kind of feel good.
 
EP 11
Michael: Hello, everyone.
Dwight: Good morning, Michael.
Phyllis: Where are we going this afternoon?
Michael: Ah! Ha ha ha!
Michael: Yeah?
Stanley: Michael.
Michael: Stanley! Bo banley.
Stanley: I need to know…
Michael: Banana fana fo fanley.
Stanley: What we’re doing.
Michael: Be my mo manley.
Stanley: You said bring a toothbrush.
Michael: Stanley.
Stanley: Is this an overnight?
Michael: Maybe. The suspense is just so exciting, isn’t it?
Stanley: Should my wife tell her boss she’s not coming in tomorrow?
Michael: Maybe, I don’t know.
Stanley: Not maybe. Yes or no.
Michael: Well, no. But… okay, don’t spoil it for everybody, all right? But we are going on a booze cruise on Lake Wallenpaupack.
Stanley: In January?
Michael: It’s cheaper.
Michael: This is not just another party. This is a leadership training exercise. Right? I’m going to combine elements of fun and motivation and education into a single mind-blowing experience.
Michael: It is now time to unveil the destination of this year’s retreat. We are going on a harbor cruise of Lake Wallenpaupack. It’s a booze cruise!
Meredith: All right!
Ryan: I have a test for business school tomorrow night. Is it okay if I skip the cruise and study for that?
Michael: No. This is mandatory. But don’t worry, you know what? You’re gonna learn plenty. This is gonna turn your life around, Ryan.
Ryan: I’m already in business school.
Michael: Well, this…
Kelly: Wait, Michael?
Michael: Yeah?
Kelly: Why did you tell us to bring a bathing suit?
Michael: To throw you off the scent.
Kelly: Yeah, but I bought a bathing suit.
Michael: Well, just keep the tags on and you can return it.
Kelly: I took the tags off already.
Michael: Well, that’s not my fault, okay? Just.. we’re not going to pay for a bathing suit. Okay, I know what you’re all thinking, “Who is this smart little cookie?” Her name is Brenda… something, and she is from corporate. And she is here, like you, to learn from what I have to say.
Michael: I am a great motivational speaker. I attended a Tony Robbins event by the airport last year, and… it wasn’t the actual course. You have to pay for the actual course. But it talked about the actual course. And I’ve incorporated a lot of his ideas into my own course.
Michael: Leader… ship. The word “ship” is hidden inside the word “leadership,” as its derivation. So if this office is, in fact, a ship, as its leader, I am the captain. But we’re all in the same boat. Teamwork!
Oscar: Last year, Michael’s theme was “Bowl over the Competition!” So guess where we went.
Michael: Now, on this ship that is the office, what is a sales department? Anyone?
Darryl: How about the sales department is the sails?
Michael: Yes, Darryl, the sales department makes sales. Good. Let me just explain. I see the sales department as the furnace.
Phyllis: A furnace?
Jim: Yeesh, how old is this ship?
Pam: How about the anchor?
Phyllis: What does the furnace do?
Michael: All right, let’s not get hung up on the furnace. This just… it’s the sales… I see the sales department down there. They’re in the engine room, and they are shoveling coal into the furnace, right? I mean, who saw the movie Titanic? They were very important in the movie Titanic. Who saw it? Show of hands!
Jim: I’m not really sure what movie you’re talking about. Are you sure you got the title right?
Michael: Titanic?
Pam: I think you’re thinking of The Hunt for Red October.
Michael: No, I’m Leo DiCaprio! Come on!
Phyllis: Michael, everyone in the engine room drowned.
Michael: No! Thank you, spoiler alert. You saw the movie, those of you who did. They’re happy down there in the furnace room. And they’re dirty and grimy and sweaty, and they’re singing their ethnic songs, and… actually, that might be warehouse.
Darryl: What?
Michael: The… no, no. No, I didn’t… okay. Well, okay, in a nutshell, what I’m saying is… leadership. We’ll talk more about that on the boat. Ship.
Dwight: Aye aye, Captain.
Michael: [singing] A three-hour tour, a three-hour tour.
Michael: Pam, you are Mary Ann! We have the Professor and Ginger, welcome aboard. Angela, you are Mrs. Howell. Lovey. [to Kelly] Uh… the native. Sometimes they come from neighboring… [to Stanley] We have one of the Globetrotters, I am the Skipper, and Dwight, you will be Gilligan.
Dwight: Cool.
Captain Jack: Actually, I’m the Skipper. But you can be Gilligan.
Michael: I’d rather die. Hi, I am Michael Scott, I am the captain of this party.
Captain Jack: I am Captain Jack, I am captain of the ship. I’m also captain of anyone who sets foot on the ship. [to boarding passengers] Hi, welcome aboard.
Michael: Okay.
Michael: In an office, when you are ranking people, manager is higher than captain. On a boat, who knows? It’s nebulose.
Michael: Hey, look! I’m king of the world!
Captain Jack: Okay, all right! Welcome aboard! I am your captain, Captain Jack.
Michael: And I am the regional manager of Dunder-Mifflin, Michael Scott. Welcome, welcome!
Captain Jack: Okay! So…
Michael: Okay! So…
Captain Jack: Please. The life preservers.
Michael: Right.
Captain Jack: They are located underneath the seats, all along the border of the boat.
Michael: But don’t worry, you are not going to be needing life preservers tonight.
Captain Jack: Well, we might, okay? Please let me finish, okay? Thank you. So, the Coast Guard requires that I tell you where the safety exits are. On this ship, it’s very easy. Anywhere over the side. [Dwight laughs loudly.] Not only am I your ship captain, I am also your party captain! Whoo! We’re gonna get it going in just a few minutes here…
Michael: I’m your party captain too! And you are gonna put on your dancing shoes later on! So we are gonna…
Captain Jack: Okay, Michael, if you don’t mind…
Michael: Rock it!
Captain Jack: Please, okay?
Michael: If the boat’s a-rockin’, don’t come knockin’!
Captain Jack: Michael.
Michael: Yep.
Captain Jack: Your company’s employees are not the only people on the boat tonight, okay?
Michael: We’re all gonna have a good time tonight!
Captain Jack: Why don’t you let me and my crew do our job. You just sit back and have a good time. All right?
Michael: Hm? Okay. Yep.
Michael: Having fun?
Brenda: Yeah. Everybody’s really nice.
Michael: Good. Well, that is what Scranton is all about. Not like you New Yawkers.
Brenda: When are you going to start the presentation?
Michael: Well, we already sort of started it back at the office and on the dock with the Gilligan thing, so… right now, I was thinking. Yes. Okay, listen up all you Dunder-Mifflinites! I would like to talk to you all about life preservers. Now, one important life preserver in business is IT support.
Captain Jack: Not now, Mike, we’re doing the limbo! That’s right, partiers, it’s time to limbo, limbo, limbo!
Michael: So, okay.

Captain Jack: All right, all right, that was great! Now it’s time for the dance contest!
Michael: But before that, I have to do my presentation.
Captain Jack: Nope! Dance contest!
Michael: All right, we’ll have a motivational dance contest! Hit it! Yeah, okay, dancing! It is a primal art form used in ancient times to express yourself with the body and communicate!
Michael: Sometimes you have to take a break from being the kind of boss that’s always trying to teach people things. Sometimes you have to just be the boss of dancing.
Captain Jack: So, what’s this presentation all about?
Michael: Ah! See, this is of general interest. It is about priorities and making decisions, using the boat as an analogy. What is important to you? If the boat is sinking, what do you save?
Captain Jack: Women and children.
Michael: No, no. Salesmen and profit centers.
Captain Jack: That’s a stupid analogy.
Michael: Okay, well, obviously you don’t know anything about leadership.
Captain Jack: Well, I was the captain of a PC-1 Cyclone Coastal Patrol Boat during Desert Storm.
Dwight: Wow. You should be the motivational speaker.
Michael: Okay.
Dwight: Yeah. He gives me real responsibility, Michael. Captain Jack delegates. He’s let me steer the ship for the last hour.
Jim: Um… let’s see, uh… The customer. Because the customer is king.
Michael: Not what I was looking for, but a good thought.

Michael: I don’t want to take credit for this, but Roy and I were just having a conversation about making commitments and making choices. Right? Did I motivate you?
Roy: No, it was Captain Jack.
Michael: Well… could have been either one of us, because we were pretty much saying the same thing. Congratulations. That is great!
Captain Jack: We gotta celebrate! Hey, I got an idea, I got an idea. I can marry you right now, as captain of the ship!
Michael: Yes! I can marry you as regional manager of Dunder-Mifflin!
Pam: No, no, I want my mom and dad to be there.
Michael: Then I’ll give you away!
Pam: No, thank you.
Dwight: Seasick? Captain Jack says you should look at the Moon.
Michael: Captain Jack is a fart face. I’m on medication.
Brenda: Really? What?
Michael: Vomicillin. Okay. All right. It’s time to be boss. It’s time to motivate. Let’s blow some minds here. Okay, guys, guys, cool it. Everybody, Dunder-Mifflin Scranton employees, Brenda, I have some very, very urgent news I need to tell everybody right now. Listen up. The ship is sinking! Okay? We’re going down, right now. Just wrap your heads around the reality of that. Shh, please! Everybody, it’s my turn now, okay? Captain Jack is gone. In five minutes, this ship is going to be at the bottom of the lake! And there aren’t enough spaces on the lifeboat! Who are we gonna save? Do we save sales? Do we save customer service? Do we save accounting? This is a business scenario. Right? It’s a scary… it’s a…
Captain Jack: Hey! Hey! What the hell is going on here?
Michael: It’s a predicament, and it’s something that each and every one of us has to think about.
Michael: I’m in the brig. See? The boat’s not as corporate-friendly as advertised. What was the deal with the guy jumping overboard? What was… if he had just waited and heard what I had to say, he would be motivated right now and not all wet.
Michael: Is somebody there?
Jim: What happened to you?
Michael: Captain Jack has a problem with authority.
Jim: Oh, right, because you announced that his ship was sinking?
Michael: He just totally lost it. If you ask me, he caused the panic.
Jim: What a night.
Michael: Well, it’s nice for you. Your friend got engaged.
Jim: She was always engaged.
Michael: Roy said the first one didn’t count.
Jim: That’s… great. You know, to tell the truth, I used to have a big thing for Pam, so…
Michael: Really? You’re kidding me. You and Pam? Wow. I would have never have put you two together. You really hid it well. God! I usually have a radar for stuff like that. You know, I made out with Jan…
Jim: Yeah, I know.
Michael: Yeah? Yep. Well, Pam is cute.
Jim: Yeah. She’s really funny, and she’s warm. And she’s just… well, anyway.
Michael: Well, if you like her so much, don’t give up.
Jim: She’s engaged.
Michael: BFD. Engaged ain’t married.
Jim: Huh.
Michael: Never, ever, ever give up.
Dwight: Don’t worry, Michael. I’m taking us to shore.
Michael: It’s a fake wheel, dummy.
Michael: [knocking] Yeah.
Jan: Hello, Michael.
Michael: Hello.
Jan: Can we come in?
Michael: Of course, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Jan: Thank you very much.
Michael: Have a seat.
Jan: Brenda.
Michael: Oh, every man’s dream.
Jan: Oh, really? A surprise visit from his boss?
Michael: Two ladies at once. What? Why are you looking at me like that? Okay, you heard something. Um, yeah, it’s a booze cruise, but it… There’s more to the story than that. It…
Jan: A booze cruise? What do you mean?
Michael: Leadership off-site. Uh, booze cruise is just a rhyme…
Jan: Michael, we discussed the IRS’s regulations.
Michael: Yeah, I don’t even know why I said booze cruise. I don’t even think there’s booze on the boat.
Jan: Okay, this event has to have legitimate business content to be tax deductible.
Michael: Of course.
Jan: We discussed that.
Michael: Of course, of course. Yes. Yes. Look, I have a whole program planned. Jan, this program is going to change people’s lives. I am going to be dropping serious knowledge all over the boat.
Jan: Good. This is Brenda Matlow from corporate training.
Michael: Hello.
Jan: I thought she could attend tonight, and if your event is appropriate, you could give it to other branches.
Michael: Oh, cool. Cool. And maybe you could attend tonight and then you could stay over at my house for the night. Awkward. That’s… You know what. Brenda, could Jan and I have a moment alone?
Brenda: Jan said if you asked me that I was supposed to say no.
Michael: Really? You seriously said that? Okay. Brenda, could Jan and I have a moment alone?
Brenda: Sure…
Jan: Brenda.
Michael: Thanks.
Brenda: I mean, no.
Jan: Okay, you know, I’m gonna go now, and…
Michael: Oh, okay.
Jan: Good luck, Brenda.
Michael: I’ll see you later.
Jan: Okay, see you later. And try to be professional.
Michael: I’ll call you later.
Jan: No, that’s all right.
Michael: That’s like…
Jan: You call me if you need anything, Brenda.
Michael: I’ll call you, too. [to Brenda] So. You are probably gonna get carded, so I can make you a fake ID. We have a laminating machine.
Michael: What is a sales department? Oscar, what do you think?
Oscar: I don’t know what the categories are of workers on a boat.
Michael: I’m not giving you the answer. Deck hands is one. And…
Dwight: Oh, oh, can I be the first mate?
Michael: No, I’m first mate. You’re second mate. I’m first mate, as the captain.
Pam: How about the anchor?
Michael: Well, the anchor is the only thing that kind of slows the ship down. Toby is the anchor. Oh, God. He, well… [to Brenda] Tell you about Toby later, he’s awful.
Brenda: Yeah, I know Toby from Jan’s birthday.
Toby: Hey, Brenda.
Michael: Oh, hey, Toby. So… It’s an analogy.
Michael: [Toby running to get on the cruise] Hey! What’s wrong with you? You missed the boat.
Toby: I got lost.
Michael: Idiot.
Captain Jack: We can go back.
Michael: No, no, no. That’s his punishment for not being here on time. Too bad, anchor!
Toby: I guess I shouldn’t have stopped for dinner.
Michael: Hey. You know what the best way of studying is?
Ryan: At home, not on a boat?
Michael: Flash cards.
Ryan: Flash cards. Doesn’t really help me right now because I’m on a boat.
Michael: You are gonna get seasick if you keep reading in here.
Ryan: Well…
Deleted Scene 7 Captain Jack: Yeah! All right. All right. That was awesome. All right, looks like the guitar player’s gonna take a little break. So this’d be a great time to head on over to the taco bar. All right.
Michael: That is a great way to kill this party. Not on my watch. Let’s, uh,… Let’s rock. Let’s rock some stuff here, okay? [playing badly] Okay… I’m hearing a little too much reverb. [feedback echoing] Can we down the reverb? All right. Follow my lead. [playing Smoke on the Water] Does you guys know that? Take the bass. Take the drums. What?
Creed: Do you want me to give it a shot? Just…
Michael: You know what? I don’t think it’s in…
Creed: I…
Michael: That’s not in tune. I don’t know if you can…
Creed: I don’t know, let’s try.
Michael: …make much of out of it, Creed. Good luck to you. I don’t know. It is a defective ax, my friend.
Creed: All right.
Michael: Good luck.
Creed: Guys, E, blues. Follow me, okay? [playing well]
Roy: Yeah!
Michael: Those slide moves are just bush league. I hope I die before I’m old.
Michael: Hey, Jim. You got a hat?
Jim: Yeah.
Michael: Thanks.
 
EP 12
Pam: Dunder Mifflin, this is Pam.
Michael: Pam! It’s Michael. Help me! I need help right now.
Pam: Michael, what’s wrong?
Michael: I’m hurt, I have hurt myself. Oh my God!
Pam: Ok, wait wait wait wait…
Michael: Ungh, this is not looking good Pam!
Pam: Michael, do you need me to call an ambulance?!
Michael: No, I want you to pick me up.
Jim: What?
Pam: Ok…
Jim: What’s going on?
Pam: Wait a second, I thought you said that you were hurt.
Michael: I am hurt. I hurt my foot.
Jim: I’m sorry? Pam.
Pam: [exasperated]
Jim: What is going on?
Michael: I want to come to work. But I need you to come and pick me up. [Jim lunges across Pam’s desk and puts Michael on speakerphone]
Michael: OH GOD!
Jim: Hey, whoa, Michael…
Michael: Oh God!
Jim: It’s, okay, it’s Jim. Just say again, uh, really loudly what happened.
Michael: OK, buhhhh, I burned my foot very badly on my Foreman Grill and I now need someone to come and bring me into work.
Jim: You burned your foot on a Foreman Grill?
Michael: I enjoy having breakfast in bed. I like waking up to the smell of bacon, sue me. And since I don’t have a butler, I have to do it myself. So, most nights before I go to bed, I will lay six strips of bacon out on my George Foreman Grill. Then I go to sleep. When I wake up, I plug in the grill, I go back to sleep again. Then I wake up to the smell of crackling bacon. It is delicious, it’s good for me. It’s the perfect way to start the day. Today I got up, I stepped onto the grill and it clamped down on my foot… that’s it. I don’t see what’s so hard to believe about that.
Michael: Pam, could you come get me?!
Pam: Uh, I have to stay here and answer the phone.
Michael: Ok, could someone come and get me please, Ryan?
Phyllis: Michael, you should stay home and rest.
Michael: There’s no toilet paper here. Could Ryan… tell Ryan to bring toilet paper. Could you tell ’em that?
Kevin: Can you hop?
Michael: I tried hopping, Kevin, and I bumped my elbow against the wall and now my elbow has a protruberance.
Michael: [panicked] No one wants to pick me up!?
Dwight: [silence, Dwight enters the office] What is going on? What is going on?
Pam: Michael, is, um, sick and he wants one of us to rescue him.
Michael: I’m not sick! I’m burned!
Dwight: I’m coming Michael!
Jim: Oh…
Dwight: I’m gonna save you!
Michael: Don’t… is that Dwight? I do not want Dwight.
Dwight: Hold on Michael! I am coming! Wait there!
Michael: I don’t want Dwight!
Pam: Michael, why don’t you call your girlfriend?
Michael: I don’t have a girlfriend.
Jim: But you said that you went out with her this weekend.
Michael: It was all made up. Just someone come, ok? Anyone. Anyone but Dwight.
Michael: Hellooo? … Please don’t send Dwight!
Michael: Morning everyone. Don’t freak out. I forbid anybody to freak out. Clearly, I have had a very serious accident, but I will recover, God willing. I just want to be treated normally today. Normal would actually be good, considering the trauma that I’ve been through.
Pam: You missed two big conference calls today, one with corporate.
Michael: Did you explain why?
Pam: No, I didn’t mention that you cooked your foot.
Michael: Burned my foot, Pam.
Michael: Please stop popping my cast. Thank you.
Jim: So, where are you shipping your foot?
Michael: Ha ha ha. So where are you shipping…
Dwight: Your foot?
Michael: Thank you. Pam, messages please?
Pam: You didn’t have any.
Michael: Really, well, it, uh, seemed very important to you earlier that you needed to stay and…
Pam: And do my job?
Michael: No, your job is being my friend, Pam. OW! God!
Dwight: [holding mini-fan] It slipped.
Michael: What?
Dwight: Sorry.
Pam: It’s just that before, you said that you didn’t want any special treatment.
Michael: I don’t want any special treatment, Pam. I just want you to treat me like you would some family member who’s undergone some sort of serious physical trauma. I don’t think that’s too much to ask.
Pam: Do you want some aspirin, because you seem a little fussy.
Michael: No, I don’t want some aspirin, yeah I’m a little fussy. Aspirin’s not gonna do a damn thing. I’m sitting here with a bloody stump of a foot.
Dwight: Hey, Pam, I’m assistant regional manager, and I can take care of him. Part of my duties are to.
Michael: What? Part of your duties are to what?
Dwight: What?
Michael: You just said “part of your duties are to” something.
Dwight: No, I didn’t.
Michael: Yes, you did. What is wrong with you?
Dwight: What is wrong with you?
Michael: Where is my cornbread?
Ryan: Here you go.
Michael: Thank you. Did you get all dark meat like I like?
Ryan: Yes. I ordered three full rotisserie chickens worth of all dark meat.
Michael: Where are the yams?
Ryan: They were out of yams. I got you creamed spinach.
Michael: Did you go to the one in Stroudsburg?
Ryan: Yes.
Michael: And they had no yams?
Ryan: They had no yams.
Michael: How strange. Because they always have yams.
Michael: Pam… PAAAM!?
Pam: Oh, God.
Pam: [phone rings] What.
Michael: Come here please.
Pam: Tell me before I come there.
Michael: I want you to rub butter on my foot.
Pam: No.
Michael: Pam, please? I have Country Crock.
Pam: No.
Michael: Uh, ow. Ryan! … Ryaaaaan … RYYYYAN!
Michael: No, nope, no one is helping me out at all Mom. No, I’m not gonna call Jan. She’d just worry… drive down here and make a big thing… Who told you that? No, it was mutual. What is Pam doing chatting with you?
Michael: [loud noise in bathroom] No! Guh! OW! Awww, help, help me!
Toby: What, what happened?
Michael: I fell off the toilet. I’m caught between the toilet and the wall.
Toby: What do you need?
Michael: Ugh, not you. Someone else. Get Pam.
Toby: I don’t think Pam’s gonna want to come into the men’s room.
Michael: Get Ryan. He needs to lift me. [Ryan shakes his head] and he needs to clean me up a little bit. Bring a wet towel.
Toby: Ryan, is, uh, dead.
Michael: No, he’s not.
Toby: Dead.
Michael: I just saw him.
Toby: No. Can’t, can’t you just get up yourself? I… You only grilled your foot.
Michael: Ugh, forget it. I’ll just get up myself. No! Uh, aaaahhh! Ah! Oh God!
Michael: Can I have everyone’s attention please? Phyllis, Oscar, Ryan, who’s supposed to be dead, can I ask you all a question? Do you all know what it’s like to be disabled? Oscar?
Phyllis: Um, I had scoliosis as a girl.
Michael: No, never heard of it. No, a real disability, not a woman’s trouble.
Creed: When I was a teenager, I was in an iron lung.
Michael: Wuh, how, how old are you? Look, the point is, I am the only one here who has a legitimate disability, although I’m sure Stanley has had his fair share of obstacles.
Stanley: I’m not disabled and neither are you.
Michael: Ok, [lifts up cooked foot] what does this look like to you Stanley?!
Stanley: Mailboxes, Etc.
Michael: Shuuut it, ok, well, well you know what, disabilities are not things to be laughed at or laughed about. You people are jerks. Imagine if you had left Stevie Wonder on the floor of that bathroom instead of me.
Phyllis: Oh, we wouldn’t. We love Stevie Wonder.
Michael: [sigh] I burned my foot!!! Ok, twenty minutes, conference room, everybody’s in there!
Dwight: [looking up at Creed] Dad?
Michael: While we are waiting for our special guest to arrive, I wanted you all to take a look at a few of the many, many disabled icons who have contributed so much to our society.
Jim: Quick question: uh, why is Tom Hanks on the wall?
Ryan: Twice.
Michael: Good question. Forrest Gump: mentally challenged, Philadelphia [points to a picture from Big]: AIDS.
Kevin: I think that’s from Big.
Michael: I don’t think so, no.
Kelly: Yeah, he’s dancing on a piano with Robert Loggia.
Michael: He grew into a man overnight. Rare disability, still works. [sigh] A crossword puzzle Stanley, seriously, are you learning nothing here?
Stanley: Uh hmmmm… .
Michael: What you mean uh hmmm… ?
Stanley: I mean I’m learning nothing.
Michael: Ok.
Billy Merchant: Michael Scott, I’m looking for Michael Scott.
Michael: Yes, right in here, come on in.
Billy Merchant: Great.
Michael: This, ladies and gentlemen, is our special guest.
Billy Merchant: Sorry I’m late. Someone parked in the handicapped parking space.
Billy Merchant: Hey everyone, I’m Billy Merchant, you may have seen me around here before, I’m the properties manager of this office park
Michael: You are so brave. You are so brave.
Billy Merchant: Thank you. Actually, I’ve been meaning to come by here for a long time…
Michael: But it’s hard for you! Right? Because you’re in a wheelchair.
Billy Merchant: No, I just have a lot of properties to manage.
Michael: Let me ask you something, how long does it take for you to do something simple, every day, like brush your teeth in the morning?
Billy Merchant: I don’t know, like 30 seconds?
Michael: Oh my God, that’s three times as long as it takes me.
Michael: How did you get in your wheelchair?
Billy Merchant: This morning? Just like every other morning, just climbed on in. [Everyone laughs]
Michael: Hey, hey, hey, not funny! Not funny.
Billy Merchant: Hey, hey, relax, just jokin around here.
Michael: Well, that’s good, he still has a sense of humor.
Billy Merchant: Listen, I’ve actually used a chair since I was four years old. I don’t really notice it anymore.
Michael: Well they notice it. Don’t you? You notice it. It’s the first thing you saw when he rolled in here, isn’t it?
Jim: I want to clamp Michael’s face in a George Foreman grill.
Billy Merchant: So, there are just a couple things I want to remind everybody of…
Michael: Ok…
Billy Merchant: First is parking. You can’t block the freight entrance with your car, even if your blinkers are on. Does anybody have any questions? [to Dwight, whose arms is raised] Yes. Yeah? yes…
Pam: Dwight, you have your hand up.
Michael: Ignore him. You know what? We’re not that different, you and I. When I clamped my foot into a non-stick…
Billy Merchant: You know what Michael?
Michael: Yeah…
Billy Merchant: Let me stop you right there.
Michael: Ok.
Billy Merchant: And leave.
Michael: Did you see Born on the Fourth of July? I was under the impression that Billy would be more like that guy.
Billy Merchant: What’s wrong with that guy?
Jim: You mean today? He stepped on a George Foremen grill and he burned his foot.
Billy Merchant: No, not Michael. The moon-faced kid who crashed into the pole. He looks like he has a concussion.
Michael: [popping his bubble wrap cast] Hey!
Ryan: I found the pudding cups you wanted in a gas station in Carbondale!
Michael: You did it! Look at you, and with the plate and the napkin. Very nice. Thank you, Ryan.
Ryan: You are very welcome.
Michael: Did you get the yams?
Ryan: No, the gas station in Carbondale did not have fresh yams!
Michael: [sigh] Ok, I’ll just have the pudding.
Ryan: You sure?
Michael: Yeh.
Ryan: Ok.
Michael: You know what? I feel better. Ryan brought me some chocolate pudding and his kindness healed my foot.
Michael: Yeah, baby, I am feelin’ better. My body’s literally healing itself. It is amazing what the human body is capable of when you have a powerful brain.
Ryan: I ground up four extra-strength aspirin and put them in Michael’s pudding. I do the same thing with my dog to get him to take his heartworm medicine.
Michael: Uh, finally feel the blood coursing through my foot veins.
Dwight: [hits his head on his desk] Uh, ugh, ohhhh…
Jim: Uh, ok, I think we need to take him to the hospital because I’m pretty sure he has a concussion.
Michael: Oh, now you feel some compassion for him.
Angela: He needs to go right now, and you’re his emergency contact. I think that you should go with him.
Michael: Why don’t you go with him?
Angela: I, barely know him…
Dwight: I want Michael to take me…
Michael: I can’t take you, I don’t have my car and yours is all vomity.
Meredith: You can take my van!
Michael: Oh, ok, that’s, great. No, I can’t drive. Jim why don’t you drive.
Jim: Fine.
Michael: We’ll go. I’m still recovering. So let’s just, Ryan, could you get my coat please.

Michael: Shotgun!
Jim: You don’t think you should sit in the back with Dwight?
Michael: The rules of shotgun are very simple and very clear. The first person to shout “shotgun” when you’re within the sight of the car gets the front seat. That’s how the game’s played. There are no exceptions for someone with a concussion.
Michael: Oh, God, a mini-van. What is Meredith’s problem?
Jim: Well, I think she has a kid.
Michael: Well, yeah she has one kid, no husband. She’s not gonna find one driving this thing around.
Dwight: Where are we going?
Jim: Come on, get inside.
Dwight: Where are we going?
Jim: We’re going to Chuck E. Cheese.
Michael: Chuck E. Cheese? Oh, God, I’m so sick of Chuck E. Cheese.
Jim: We’re going to the hospital, Michael.
Michael: I know, just sayin’.
Michael: Dwight, what are you drinking?
Dwight: I found it under the seat.
Jim: Oh my God, Dwight, put that down.
Dwight: I’m thirsty.
Jim: Give the bottle to Michael [sprays Dwight]
Dwight: No!
Jim: Give the bottle to Michael!
Dwight: I’m thirsty!
Michael: Give it to me.
Dwight: No.
Michael: Dwight… [to Jim] You just keep your eyes on the road. [to Dwight] Give me the bottle or you’re fired.
Dwight: You can’t fire me, I don’t work in this van!
Michael: Give it to me Dwight.
Dwight: No. [takes a drink]
Michael: Give me the bottle!!
Jim: [to Michael] Will you stop?
Michael: Gimme the bottle, Dwight!
Jim: Michael stop.
Dwight: [drinks] Mmmmm…
Michael: Just give it!
Jim: Michael stop. [sprays Michael, then Dwight]
Michael: Stop, stop it! Stop spraying! [Dwight whines] Gimme the bottle!
Jim: Stop [sprays Michael]
Dwight: My eyes!
Michael: Stop spraying me! Gimme the bottle!
Dwight: My eyes!
Michael: Dwight, what is your middle name.
Dwight: Danger.
Michael: [sigh] Something with a “K”.
Jim: It’s Kurt. Wow, I am so sad that I know that.
Michael: What do I write under “reason for visit”?
Jim: Concussion. [Michael scribbles something out] What did you write?
Michael: Nothing. I wrote “bringing someone to the hospital”.
Jim: So you thought they meant your reason for coming to the hospital.
Michael: No… you know what Jim, this isn’t about me anymore. I made a miraculous recovery, which is more than I can say for him. [Dwight falls towards Jim]
Jim: Come on Dwight. [sprays Dwight]
Dwight: Hi Michael!
Michael: Hi Dwight.
Dwight: Ahhh. Mweehaa
Michael: Doctor, what is more serious, a head injury or a foot injury?
Doctor: A head injury.
Michael: Well, you don’t have all the information. The foot as been fairly severely burned and healed quickly, very quickly, actually like suspiciously quickly.
Doctor: [to Dwight] So, I’m ordering a CAT scan.
Dwight: What is that?
Michael: Look since you have the machine up and running, can I just stick my foot, we take a look?
Doctor: Well, for a burn, you really just need to look at the outside of the foot.
Michael: Ok, what kinda machine is that?
Doctor: Does the skin look red and swollen?
Dwight: That’s what she said.
Michael: That’s my joke, damnit Dwight.
Michael: I always keep a stash of bubble wrap at my house. Some days, hectic, tiring days, I just like to go home and zone out and click on the tube and pop a few. Very soothing. [to the interviewer] Want to try?
Jim: You know, that’s probably not gonna last too long, you should go to a hospital and get a real cast.
Michael: Right, I’m gonna spend the day in the hospital, bujehh. Bureaucracy and germs.
Jim: And doctors.
Michael: Yes, so, no thank you.
Dwight: Pssht.
Michael: What?
Dwight: Constructing a home-made cast? Genius. Filled with foresight. Like in the pioneer times, if you lost a leg, they would then use the bone of the leg for a cane. They wasted nothing.
Michael: Wow, I don’t want to hear… you talk. Pam, could I have a word with you in my office? [stumbling] Oh, oh, oh. Alright.
Toby: [on speakerphone] Well you know, frankly a lot of us have been saying this for a long time.
Michael: Yeah, I’ve been sayin that.
Toby: Yeah, and I, uh, I think that the very fact that we’re including it in our agenda frankly, is a big step forward.
Michael: Did you know I used to be in HR?
Toby: I’m sorry?
Michael: I used to be in HR. I was a Hell raiser.
Toby: Uh, ok.
Michael: Right? [laughs]
Toby: Uh, great. Why don’t we move on?
Michael: Alright. Movin’ on.
Toby: Great. Because you that I think the very fact that [Michael mutes the call]
Michael: Ry-an. You’re here. Whatcha got, whatcha got? Alright, Panic Room, Maverick, Nell, Sommersby, The Accused. Where’s Little Man Tate?
Ryan: They were out.
Michael: Oh come on.
Ryan: At three different places.
Michael: Oh man. It’s not a Jodie Foster afternoon without Little Man Tate, buddy.
Michael: Mmm, I’m telling you the best cure in the world is comfort food. You know how they say “stuff a cold”? Well I don’t care you’ve got, the flu, Lyme disease, emphysema, you eat an entire dark meat chicken, you can walk on the moon.
Doctor: We need to get your friend into the CT machine.
Dwight: Into a machine?! Ok. Uh, that’s bad, will you stay with me?
Michael: No.
Dwight: Ok, will you please call my cousin Mose?
Michael: No, I’m not calling your weirdo cousin. Twenty-seven years old, never left the beet farm.
Dwight: Oh God. Oh God.
Michael: Guh-od.
Dwight: Oh God.
Michael: Ok, I’ll stand near you.
Dwight: Next to me?
Michael: Next-ish.
Jim: I’m gonna pull the car around.
Michael: Shh shh shh shh.
Jim: Do you speak Spanish?
Michael: No. Do you?
Jim: No, I don’t.

